Post Murder: Article Text Only (no newspaper info)

1922-02-02	...The police are not, however, basing their investigation now upon the theory that the thief was the slayer. Instead, they at present list it as a 'murder mystery.' THE SLAYER EVIDENTLY COMMITTED THE CRIME ABOUT NEAR 9 O'CLOCK LAST NIGHT. IT WAS AT THAT TIME THAT DOUGLAS MACLEAN, MOTION PICTURE ACTOR, AND HIS WIFE, WHO LIVED NEXT DOOR, SAY THEY HEARD THE SOUND OF THE PISTOL SHOT. Police also believe that the slaying occurred at that time because of the opinion expressed by the deputy coroner that the man had been dead for more than ten hours when the body was found. The last person who saw Taylor alive, with the exception of the assassin, was Miss Mabel Normand, film star. She visited him at his home last night. She arrived at the home shortly before 7 o'clock, she said. Her statement to Detectives Winn and Murphy follows: 'I had my chauffeur drive out to Mr. Taylor's home last evening, as we had a number of business matters to discuss. I should judge that I arrived there a little before 7 o'clock. It was while I was there that we again discussed the case of a man who had been in Mr. Taylor's employ and who stole from him. 'I asked Mr. Taylor what he intended doing with the man if he was captured--and he said that he would see that the man was prosecuted. We then discussed a certain scenario that I had written and a scenario that a friend of mine had written. 'While we were talking, William Peavey, Mr. Taylor's butler, was moving about in the two rooms. It was then, also, that Mr. Taylor told me that William was in some little trouble. He said that his servant had been arrested on a charge of vagrancy and that he had been forced to go down to the police station and deposit $200 bail for him. 'He said that he intended appearing in police court at a o'clock [sic] this afternoon and said he would do what he could to aid his servant if he was convinced that the man was not guilty. But he said that if Peavey had been guilty of doing any wrong that he would be forced to discharge him. 'After we had discussed a few other trifling matters Mr. Taylor asked me if I would remain and have dinner with him. I excused myself and told him that I must hurry to my home. He then asked me if he might visit me later that night and I told him I should be glad if he would come over to my home. He promised to call me on the telephone some time about 9 o'clock. 'Mr. Taylor then accompanied me from his house to my automobile. My chauffeur, William Davis, was seated in the machine and heard Mr. Taylor bid me good-night. Mr. Taylor and I were talking when I saw Peavey leave the house. He spoke to all of us and bid us good-night. We talked for a few minutes longer and Mr. Taylor turned and walked up toward his house and my machine moved away. I have not seen him since.' Davis, who lives at 1920 Las Palmas avenue, when questioned by the officers said the same story as did Miss Normand, and said that when they left there was no one moving about the yard that surrounds the house in which the tragedy occurred. It is evident, the detectives believe that Taylor after he entered the house sat down at once in front of his desk and that the assassin entered a few minutes later. The papers on the desk were mussed up and there were a large number of cancelled checks lying upon the desk. Miss Normand, in her statement to the police stated that the desk was in the same condition when she left the house, about 8 or 8:30 o'clock last night. It was at midnight that Miss Edna Purviance, who resides in the house adjoining Mr. Taylor's to the west, returned home. At that time, she said, she noticed that the lights were burning in Mr. Taylor's house. She went to the door, she said, and rang the bell and knocked upon the door. When she failed to secure a response she returned to her own home, believing Mr. Taylor probably had left the house after forgetting to turn off the electric light switch. At the time she was knocking upon the door the body of her friend was lying just behind the door and within a few feet of her. As detectives reconstruct the murder scene, they believe that the slayer opened the door a few minutes after Miss Normand had left, at the time Taylor was seated on a chair in front of the desk checking over the canceled checks. As Taylor half rose from his chair the slayer stepped into the room, and with pistol carefully aimed, pulled the trigger. The bullet entered the left breast just below the shoulder and ranged downward through the heart. Taylor fell over backward mortally wounded and probably died within a few seconds after he had been shot. But one shot was fired. The person who wielded the gun was evidently experienced in the handling of firearms and an excellent marksman. From the appearance of the wound it was evidently a .32 caliber pistol. The police believe that this was the caliber of the pistol because it made so little noise that the slayer was able to leave the house without attracting significant attention. When Peavey arrived and opened the house this morning all of the electric lights were burning just as they had been when Miss Purviance knocked at the door. Robbery was clearly not the motive of the crime. A purse containing $78 and a very valuable watch were found in the clothing on the body. There was no indication that any search had been made of the house for valuables and nothing was found to be missing when a careful check of the effects were made by Charles Eyton, manager of the Lasky studios and a close friend of the dead man. Charles Maigne, a friend of the dead man, told officers that he was positive that Taylor believed that sometime an enemy might return and do him harm. Douglas MacLean and his wife were having their supper in their home that also adjoins Taylor's house, but to the east, when they heard the sound of a shot. They place the time at about 9:30 or 9 o'clock in the statement they made to Detective Sergeants Wallis and Ziegler. Mrs. MacLean, however, told the officers that she noticed a man WALKING RAPIDLY DOWN THE WALK towards Taylor's home last evening shortly after Miss Normand left. She gave the following description of the man to officers: Height about 5 feet 8 or 9 inches, weight about 165 pounds. He had a muffler about his neck and was at the time wearing a plaid cap pulled over his eyes. She did not notice the clothing he was wearing and was unable to furnish the police with a better description because she says, she was unable to see distinctly at that hour of the night. 'I had, of course, no reason to be suspicious of that man at that time,' said Mrs. MacLean, when discussing the case with the two detective sergeants. 'But now I am convinced that he was the slayer. It was after I had seen him that my husband and I sat down to dinner. THAT WAS ABOUT 8:30 OR 9 O'CLOCK, I GUESS. 'We had just started our dinner when we heard a pistol shot. We did not investigate because we heard nothing further after that to arouse our suspicions and we thought that possibly the sound we heard then was that of an automobile backfiring in the street. Now, of course, we know that it was the shot that ended the life of Mr. Taylor.'
1922-02-02	William D. Taylor was a man of extreme courtesy; he talked little, and, apparently, he never forgot an acquaintance. I have seen him at work and at play, and he was always the same unostentatious, unassuming, quiet individual. When he did talk it was in a mild, melodious voice. No matter what the provocation on a set where he was directing a picture, he rarely if ever lost his temper. He addressed those under him with the same courtesy with which he conversed with those who wrote his contracts and paid his salary. ...It was always noticeable that he was extremely courteous to women working on his set, but he was never familiar. He would laugh and tell jokes and all that sort of thing, but he would not stand for any 'rough stuff' in any scenes he directed...
1922-02-02	With a gaping bullet wound in his left breast the body of William Desmond Taylor, one of the best known motion picture directors in the world, was found beside his desk in his home at 404 South Alvarado street, where he had fallen, the victim of an unknown assassin. The gruesome discovery was made by Henry Peavey of 127 1/2 East Third street, a negro, who was employed as a butler by Mr. Taylor, shortly after 8 o'clock this morning. Motion picture circles in Los Angeles and throughout the world were shocked by news of the slaying and hundreds of messages began pouring into Los Angeles asking for confirmation of the fact and for details of the slaying. Within a short time after the new murder mystery that is baffling the Los Angeles police department had been brought to light detectives began quizzing Miss Mabel Normand, Miss Edna Purviance and Douglas MacLean, all prominent in the motion picture world. After talking with these persons, Detective Sergeants Winn, Zeigler, Murphy and Wallis announced that a nation-wide search had been ordered for Edward F. Sands, who was formerly employed as a secretary by Taylor. It is believed Sands, who had an intimate knowledge of Taylor's movements and his associates, may assist the police in solving the murder. Six months ago Taylor returned to Los Angeles after a tour of Europe. Then he learned that a man he had employed had 'raised' a number of personal checks and had stolen many suits of his clothes. He reported the robbery to the police and charged that the man had secured many thousands of dollars by his illegal methods. A police search was being made for this man when Mr. Taylor's house was again entered and a number of suits and articles of jewelry were taken. It was after this second robbery that Mr. Taylor received a letter. It read: 'Dear Mr. Taylor--So sorry to inconvenience you, even temporarily; also observe the lesson of the forced sale of assets. (signed) 'Alias Jimmy V.' From Miss Normand and other persons the police learned that Mr. Taylor had often expressed fear that some time this man would return and do him bodily harm. The police are not, however, basing their investigation now upon the theory that the thief was the slayer. Instead, they at present list it as a 'murder mystery.' The slayer evidently committed the crime about near 9 o'clock last night. It was at that time that Douglas MacLean, motion picture actor, and his wife, who lived next door, say they heard the sound of the pistol shot. Police also believe that the slaying occurred at that time because of the opinion expressed by the deputy coroner that the man had been dead for more than ten hours when the body was found The last person who saw Taylor alive, with the exception of the assassin, was Miss Mabel Normand, film star. She visited him at his home last night. She arrived at the home shortly before 7 o'clock, she said. Her statement to Detectives Winn and Murphy follows: 'I had my chauffeur drive out to Mr. Taylor's home last evening, as we had a number of business matters to discuss. I should judge that I arrived there a little before 7 o'clock. It was while I was there that we again discussed the case of a man who had been in Mr. Taylor's employ and who stole from him. 'I asked Mr. Taylor what he intended doing with the man if he was captured--and he said he would see that the man was prosecuted. We then discussed a certain scenario that I had written and a scenario that a friend of mine had written. 'While we were talking, William [sic] Peavey, Mr. Taylor's butler, was moving about in the two rooms. It was then, also that Mr. Taylor told me that William was in some little trouble. He said that his servant had been arrested on a charge of vagrancy and that he had been forced to go down to the police station and deposit $200 bail for him. 'He said that he intended appearing in police court at a o'clock [sic] this afternoon and said he would do what he could to aid his servant if he was convinced that the man was not guilty. But he said that if Peavey had been guilty of doing any wrong that he would be forced to discharge him. 'After we had discussed a few other trifling matters Mr. Taylor asked me if I would remain and have dinner with him. I excused myself and told him that I must hurry to my home. He then asked me if he might visit me later that night and I told him I should be glad if he would come over to my home. He promised to call me on the telephone some time about 9 o'clock. 'Mr. Taylor then accompanied me from his house to my automobile. My chauffeur, William Davis, was seated in the machine and heard Mr. Taylor bid me good-night. He spoke to all of us and bid us good-night. We talked for a few minutes longer and Mr. Taylor turned and walked up toward his house and my machine moved away. I have not seen him since.' Davis, who lives at 1920 Las Palmas avenue, when questioned by the officers said the same story as did Miss Normand, and said that when they left there was no one moving about the yard that surrounds the house in which the tragedy occurred. It is evident, the detectives believe that Taylor after he entered the house sat down at once in front of his desk and that the assassin entered a few minutes later. The papers on the desk were mussed up and there were a large number of canceled checks lying upon the desk. Miss Normand, in her statement to the police stated that the desk was in the same condition when she left the house, about 8 or 8:30 o'clock last night. It was at midnight that Miss Edna Purviance, who resides in the house adjoining Mr. Taylor's to the west, returned home. At that time, she said she noticed that the lights were burning in Mr. Taylor's house. She went to the door, she said, and rang the bell and knocked upon the door. When she failed to secure a response she returned to her own home, believing Mr. Taylor probably had left the house after forgetting to turn off the electric light switch. At the time she was knocking upon the door the body of her friend was just behind the door within a few feet of her. As detectives reconstruct the murder scene, they believe that the slayer opened the door a few minutes after Miss Normand had left, at the time Taylor was seated on a chair in front of the desk checking over the canceled checks. As Taylor half rose from his chair the slayer stepped into the room, and with pistol carefully aimed, pulled the trigger. The bullet entered the left breast just below the shoulder and ranged downward through the heart. Taylor fell over backward mortally wounded and probably died within a few seconds after he had been shot. But one shot was fired. The person who wielded the gun was evidently experienced in the handling of firearms and an excellent marksman. From the appearance of the wound it was evidently a .32 caliber pistol. The police believe that this was the caliber of the pistol because it made so little noise that the slayer was able to leave the house without attracting significant attention. When Peavey arrived and opened the house this morning all of the electric lights were burning just as they had been when Miss Purviance knocked at the door. Robbery was clearly not the motive of the crime. A purse containing $78 and a very valuable watch were found in the clothing on the body. There was no indication that any search had been made of the house for valuables and nothing was found to be missing when a careful check of the effects were made by Charles Eyton, manager of the Lasky studios and a close friend of the dead man. Charles Maigne, a friend of the dead man. told officers that he was positive that Taylor believed that sometime an enemy might return and do him harm. Douglas MacLean and his wife were having their supper in their home that also adjoins Taylor's house, but to the east, when they heard the sound of a shot. They place the time at about 9:30 or 9 o'clock in the statement they made to Detective Sergeants Wallis and Ziegler. Mrs. MacLean, however, told the officers that she noticed a man walking rapidly down the walk towards Taylor's home last evening shortly after Miss Normand left. She gave the following description of the man to officers: Height about 5 feet 8 or 9 inches, weight about 165 pounds. He had a muffler about his neck and was at the time wearing a plaid cap pulled over his eyes. She did not notice the clothing he was wearing and was unable to furnish the police with a better description because she says, she was unable to see distinctly at that hour of the night. 'I had of course, no reason to be suspicious of that man at that time,' said Mrs. MacLean, when discussing the case with the two detective sergeants. 'But now I am convinced that he was the slayer. It was after I had seen him that my husband and I sat down to dinner. That was about 8:30 or 9 o'clock, I guess. 'We had just started our dinner when we heard a pistol shot. We did not investigate because we heard nothing further after that to arouse our suspicions and we thought that possibly the sound we heard then was that of an automobile backfiring in the street. Now, of course, we know that it was the shot that ended the life of Mr. Taylor.' Mr. MacLean corroborated the statement made by his wife and the servant employed by the couple also told the officers that she plainly heard the shot while she was seated in the kitchen of the house. Mrs. C. F. Reddick of 410 A. South Alvarado street, who lives near by, told the police that she was awakened shortly after 1 o'clock last night by the sound of three shots. She said that she believed they came from the direction of the Taylor home. A systematic search of the neighborhood is being made by police in an effort to learn if any person or persons saw who last entered or left the Taylor home. They are also anxious to learn if any other persons in the neighborhood saw the man described by Mrs. MacLean loitering about and are anxious to secure a better description of the man. Detective Captain Dave Adams announced that he will run the assassin to earth if it becomes necessary to detail 20 detectives and a number of private investigators to the case. Upon the orders of Chief Deputy Coroner William McDonald the body was removed to the mortuary of the Ivy H. Overholtzer Undertaking Company, where an inquest will be held. The date of the inquest has not as yet been set, but it will probably be either Saturday or Monday, next, it is believed. Motion picture circles in Los Angeles were shocked when the first news of the murder reached them in an extra edition of the Evening Express. The blow was particularly felt at the Lasky studio; where Taylor was known to every actor, actress, property man and other employees. Immediately on receipt of the news work at the studios and on location ceased and men and women, their pallor showing through the grease paint of their makeups, gathered in knots to discuss the tragedy and speculate on what prompted the crime. Many theories were offered, among them revenge for fancied wrong, desire for gain and jealousy.
1922-02-02	NEGRO VALET SOBS STORY OF TRAGEDY '`Good night, Henry, good night,' he said to me when I left him yesterday,' said Henry Peavey, Taylor's colored valet, between sobs as he told of the tragedy that ended the life of his beloved employer last night. '`Good night, Mr. Taylor,' I said to him, and that's the last I saw of him until I opened the door this morning and found his dead body, his feet stretching toward me on the floor.' The negro broke into soft sobs and then declared passionately: 'I wish I could get the man that did it. I'd go to jail for the rest of my life if I could get him.' As Peavey talked, he was taking some white cloths clotted with blood from a wire paper basket and placing them in the court incinerator. 'His blood,' the negro said, pathetically. 'We just used the cloths to clean up the room.' 'Mr. Taylor was the most wonderful man I ever worked for and I don't see how anybody would want to kill him. I have been with him six months.' Peavey said that he came to Taylor's apartment early today, intending to go through the usual round of his duties. 'I was going to fix his bath water for him,' said the valet, 'and then give him his dose of medicine. After that I was going to fix his breakfast--a couple of boiled eggs, some toast and a glass of orange juice. 'WHEN I OPENED THE DOOR I SAW HIM LYING THERE STRETCHED OUT ON THE FLOOR, HIS FEET TOWARD ME AND THE FLOOR ALL BLOODY. 'I turned and screamed and the landlord came rushing in.' Peavey said he lived at 127 1/2 Third Street. 'I have not been staying with Taylor during the night, but have been sleeping in my room.' Peavey's theory was that somebody slipped into the open door of Taylor's apartment when Taylor took Mabel Normand to her car late last night, and shot him from ambush inside the room.
1922-02-02	Mary Miles Minter Heartbroken Tears streaming down here pretty face, Mary Miles Minter, famous motion picture star, hurried to the door of the Taylor bungalow at noon today and asked brokenly: 'It isn't true, is it?' 'Taylor is dead,' said Detective Sergeant H. J. Wallis. 'Oh my God, I can't believe it,' Miss Minter cried in despair. She turned in her grief to her mother, who had accompanied her to the bungalow court in her automobile. 'And I saw him only yesterday,' she said. 'His car passed mine at Seventh and Alvarado--it was the first time I knew it was gray.'
1922-02-02	New clues were discovered late this afternoon that may lead to a solution of the mysterious murder of William Desmond Taylor, 35, noted movie director, found shot through the back, in his apartment, 404-B South Alvarado street, this morning. New developments were: 1. Taylor had a premonition that death was near, and related his fear to Mrs. J. M. Berger, income tax expert. 'If anything happens,' he told her yesterday afternoon, 'look out for my affairs.' 2. Mysterious phone calls and anonymous letters were received by Taylor. He told Mrs. Berger that for three weeks someone had been attempting to find out if Taylor was in his apartment. When Taylor answered, the person would hang up immediately.3. Taylor was engaged in a telephone call that evidently worried him, when Mabel Normand called at his apartments at 7:15 p.m. yesterday.4. Taylor is reported to have told Charles Maigne, a friend, that he feared unknown persons, who invaded his apartments while he was absent, walked on his bed with dusty shoes, and left gold-tipped cigarette stubs. Detectives late today said they were unable to find a single trace of Edward F. Sands, former valet of Taylor's charged with robbing Taylor. Warrants were issued weeks ago for Sands. Police want to question him. Mabel Normand, this afternoon, was confined to her home from nervous breakdown. She is said to be a dear friend of Taylor. Taylor's body was found sprawled in front of his writing desk, by Harry [sic] Peavey, colored man-servant. He was evidently shot from behind. The bullet took an upward course, entering his body near the left kidney. Powder burns were evident. The bullet lodged underneath the right shoulder. Death was instantaneous. Mabel Normand, the motion picture star, is believed to have been the last person to see Taylor alive. Officers say that she had discussed a scenario with the Famous Players-Lasky director early last evening before the colored valet had left, and that Taylor had conducted her to a waiting auto in the street. Peavey, the valet, who left the house at about the same time, said that Taylor had left the front door of the apartment open, and it is assumed that the murderer entered and concealed himself, shooting down his victim as he returned. Peavey discovered Taylor's body, lying as it fell, with a chair athwart the legs, and rushed in a frenzy of fear to rouse the neighbors. One of the first to arrive at the murder house was E. C. Jessurun, owner of the bungalow court in which Taylor lived. He said he heard a shot last night, but paid no attention to it, as he thought it was an automobile backfiring. The noise was also heard by Mrs. Douglas MacLean, movie actress, living in one of the court bungalows. 'When I entered the room,' Jessurun said, 'it was in absolutely good condition, indicating no struggle. 'Taylor was lying in front of his desk, the blood all over his face. 'It would have been impossible for him to have been shot by anyone outside of the bungalow. Whoever did it was inside Taylor's room. 'As I remember, a light was burning all night in the Taylor apartment.' Charles Eyton, manager of the Famous Players-Lasky company, said that to his knowledge Taylor did not have an enemy in the world. Money to the amount of $78.20 was found in Taylor's pockets. Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean, motion picture stars, who live next door to Taylor, said they heard a shot fired about 8:30. Mrs. MacLean said she opened the door and saw a man leaving Taylor's residence. She got no description of him. Mrs. C. F. Reddick, who lives in a house across the courtyard from the motion picture director, said she heard three shots fired about 2 a.m. One bullet, however, had struck Taylor. It entered his left side immediately below the heart and death was caused by hemorrhage. Other neighbors, when they heard the shot, were not sure it was a revolver shot. They listened but heard no further commotion, so came to the conclusion that it must have been the exhaust of an automobile. Taylor's body was removed to the Harvey-Overholtzer undertaking parlors where a complete examination will be made to determine from just what angle the fatal shot was fired. Not a thing in the well-furnished house was disturbed. Peavey said that everything was just as he had left it when he went home at 7 o'clock last night. Taylor was one of the best known, best liked motion picture directors in the game today. Many prominent stars of the film world gathered at his home. Taylor lived alone at the modest apartment where he had been for the past three years. Here, neighbors say, he practically immersed himself in his art, occasionally entertaining friends. About the walls of his workshop living room hang scores of autographed photos of famous movie folk, his intimates and associates. The apartment is on two floors. Upstairs are the bedrooms where Taylor, on his dressing table, kept a loaded revolver. The weapon was found lying on the dresser this morning. Charles Eyton, manager of the Famous Players-Lasky company, said that no stone would be left unturned to run his murderer to earth. It is believed that the only man who had a grudge against the director was Edward Sands. Taylor is said by the police to have had incriminating evidence against Sands in connection with the robbery of his house several months ago. Sands is said to have formerly been a butler to the motion picture man and is now being hunted for burglary. Detective Sergeant Zeigler, said that among the effects found untouched in the house was jewelry, which he declares was taken by Sands, the former butler, and returned from Stockton, from which point Sands had sent the pawn tickets with a sarcastic note. Miss Normand said that when she left, Taylor told her that he would call her as soon as she reached her home, but when he did not call, she began to wonder what was the matter. The police believe that the murder was perpetrated more for revenge or as it had been pointed out, to prevent Taylor telling what he knew of the burglary.
1922-02-02	Mabel Normand, the last person known to have seen William D. Taylor arrive, arrived at Taylor's home last night at approximately 7 o'clock, she said. He had just finished dinner and was talking over the telephone, as Miss Normand came in. Taylor's valet let her in the door and in a few moments Taylor said 'good-bye' on the telephone and came out and spoke to Miss Normand. For the next 45 minutes the actress and Taylor sat discussing scenarios and a book which the director had purchased that day from a department store as a gift for Miss Normand. He had phoned her at her home earlier in the afternoon, requesting her to call at his home for the book. Miss Normand was at her bank earlier in the afternoon and had phoned her home, receiving Taylor's message to the effect that he had already sent her one book from a book store, but had got the book that she wanted at a department store, and requested her to stop at his apartment on her way home to pick up the book. The Sennett star left Taylor at 7:45 and arrived home by 8 o'clock, she asserted. When she left Taylor's home, he escorted her to her car and in the presence of her chauffeur, bade her good night. When Miss Normand arrived at Taylor's residence he had just finished dinner and his valet was clearing the table, she said. Completing this work, he said good night and left. He was seen talking to Miss Normand's chauffeur for about five minutes afterward. Miss Normand arrived home at approximately 8 o'clock and retired to her room, where at about 8:15 she had dinner served in bed. The first information the star received of Taylor's death was at 7:30 this morning, when Miss Edna Purviance phoned her and informed her that Taylor's negro valet, who had just opened the door to enter the house, came running into the yard, screaming. The light in the house, Miss Purviance informed Miss Normand, had been burning all night. Taylor had asked Miss Normand if he could not take her to dinner. Miss Normand replied 'no,' she was tired and was going home to eat dinner and retire early. Taylor promised to call Miss Normand within an hour. He never called her.
1922-02-02	Just a cocktail shaker, and besides it two stemmed glasses with sediment of orange juice and gin in the bottom, and two half-buried cigarettes on the tray. That was the only evidence of sociability that marked the last hour of William D. Taylor's spectacular film career. This morning the remnant of Taylor's hospitality stood out as the only trace of disorder in his magnificent bachelor apartments at 404B South Alvarado street. Except where his huge body fell across the highly polished floor, with a big arm chair toppling over him. The bewitching smiles, frowns and pensive moods of beautiful Mary Miles Minter, film star, gazed from various photographs around the walls of his living room. If those pictures could speak, the assassin who shot Taylor from the back could be vividly described. From a secluded corner, Mary Pickford's autographed likeness beamed its friendship for the popular director. America's most popular star had written her appreciation of Taylor's patience in directing her. Taylor was a man of discriminating taste as to the furnishings of his apartments. A few choice vases, a leather bound set of Encyclopedia Brittanica in a small bookcase, a few choice ivory carved ornaments on his piano, an expensive oriental rug--that was about all that adorned his living room, except-- Taylor, the man, was for business first. There was no mistaking that part of his nature. His tiny mahogany desk, which was placed against the front of the house, was littered with letters, canceled checks and bills. That he lived to himself was noted by the many personal things that surrounded him. He was a man of modest taste. Even though he was rich and his house luxuriously furnished, there was no sign of extravagance, gaudiness or show about his abode. A copy of Floyd Dells' 'Moon Calf,' with a hand-painted ribbon marking his progress in the popular story, was on a stand by the piano. The dining-room was orderly, save where the police had been forced to move the blood-stained rugs through from the living room. Strange were the stories told about Taylor today--while his lifeless body was being moved to the Ivy Overholtzer undertaking parlor. He was tall, handsome, charming to meet--that is, if one was fortunate enough to meet him. But he was mysterious of habits. He was quiet, unobtrusive and never entertained women in his bachelor apartments alone. Four years he had lived in the severe, cold-looking colonial apartment court. Four years he had been there, but in that time he was unknown to others who lived there. He seldom entertained. And when he did--his visitors left at a reasonable hour. They were always quiet, just like himself. And when he had work to do, Taylor would not answer the doorbell, the telephone, but would stay locked in his apartment, until everything was finished. It was just his manner. Likewise--he did not believe in 'wild parties' at his home. In the four years he had lived at the place he had entertained upon three memorable occasions, and there were crowds, chaperons, and the parties broke up early. And they tell how very inconspicuously he dressed. Always he was well groomed--that is what those who were fortunate enough to get a glimpse of the man say--but never what was called 'a fashion plate.' He hadn't been home of evenings lately much--because the light in his living room had been out. That was the way neighbors knew that the popular director was about. Taylor was silent about his business affairs. He discussed them with nobody. He kept his own counsel, just as he preferred to live alone. His heart affairs were also seldom discussed. But that Miss Minter was very popular with the dead man was discerned by the fact that her telephone number led the list in the directory in his telephone booth. Likewise, other film favorites had their place in his calling list, but his name has not been linked with any of them, although he was known as an eligible bachelor. Were his thoughts on Mabel Normand when Taylor went to his mysterious death? She had been his guest in the evening. At 8:30 o'clock he saw her to her car. He returned, locked the door and stood at his desk ready to resume work. Just above his work, pinned to the lacy draperies on the window, was the somewhat pouty, impudent, but adorable face of Mabel Normand--looking at him. But who killed William D. Taylor?
1922-02-02	Deputy Public Administrator L. P. Waterman took charge of the murdered Wm. D. Taylor's personal effects late this morning. These included recent letters from Ethel Daisy Taylor, daughter of the deceased, living at Mamaraneck, New York. Judging from their contents, the daughter is in her 'teens and attending a finishing school. According to Waterman, Taylor had been working on his income tax some time during the evening. An itemized account of his income, which gave the total at $38,000 a year was found by Waterman. The high literary tastes of the deceased motion picture director are revealed by the books piled on the table at which Taylor had been at work when he was shot. These included John Maysefield's 'Collected Poems,' John Galsworthy's 'In Chancery,' Knut Hamsun's 'Dreamers,' Gorky's 'Stories of the Steppe,' John Dos Passos' 'Three Soldiers,' Conrad Aiken's 'Punch' and Eunice Tietjens' 'Profiles from China.' On the fly leaf of each of these books, their owner had written 'Wm. D. Taylor.' The theory of Frank O'Connor, formerly an assistant director under Taylor and now director for Marshal Neilan, is that he was shot by a person kneeling. He pointed out that the bullet entered the body rather low on the left side and made its way upward in a slanting direction to a point beneath the right shoulder. O'Conner insisted that this theory was supported by the fact that Taylor's clothing was burned and there were powder marks on his flesh. He had been dead about 10 hours, according to the information received by O'Connor. Taylor had been working on a part for a woman star in a new Lasky production during the afternoon, according to friends. 'I left him talking over one of those books with Miss Normand at about 7 o'clock,' said Harry Peavey, his colored valet. ''Anything more you want?'' I asked him,' Peavey said he inquired of Taylor. 'He told me he didn't and I went home.'
1922-02-02	Good night, Henry good night,' he said to me when I left him yesterday,' said Henry Peavey, Taylor's colored valet between sobs as he told of the tragedy that ended the life of his beloved employer last night. ''Good night, Mr. Taylor,' I said to him, and that's the last I saw of him until I opened the door this morning and found his dead body, his feet stretching toward me on the floor.' The negro broke into soft sobs and then declared passionately: 'I wish I could get the man that did it. I'd go to jail for the rest of my life if I could get him.' As Peavey talked, he was taking some white cloths clotted with blood from a wire paper basket and placing them in the court incinerator. 'His blood,' the negro said pathetically. 'We just used the cloths to clean up the room.' 'Mr. Taylor was the most wonderful man I ever worked for and I don't see how anybody would want to kill him. I have been with him six months.' Peavey said that he came to Taylor's apartment early today, intending to go through the usual round of his duties. 'I was going to fix his bath water for him.' said the valet, 'and then give him his dose of medicine. After that I was going to fix his breakfast-- a couple of boiled eggs, some toast and a glass of orange juice. 'When I opened the door I saw him lying there stretched out on the floor, his feet toward me and the floor all bloody. 'I turned and screamed and the landlord came rushing in.' Peavey said he lived at 127 1/2 Third Street. 'I have not been staying with Taylor during the night, but have been sleeping in my room.' Peavey's theory was that somebody slipped into the open door of Taylor's apartment when Taylor took Mabel Normand to her car late last night, and shot him from ambush inside the room.
1922-02-02	Tears streaming down here pretty face, Mary Miles Minter, famous motion picture star, hurried to the door of the Taylor bungalow at noon today and asked brokenly: 'It isn't true, is it?' 'Taylor is dead,' said Detective Sergeant H. J. Wallis. 'Oh my God, I can't believe it,' Miss Minter cried in despair. She turned in her grief to her mother, who had accompanied her to the bungalow court in her automobile. 'And I saw him only yesterday,' she said. 'His car passed mine at Seventh and Alvarado--it was the first time I knew it was gray.' Miss Minter was one of the chief mourners at the Undertaking parlors of the Ivy Overholtzer company, where Taylor's body was taken. Miss Minter was leaning upon the arm of her grandmother. The star cried and offered to do anything she could to aid police in solving the mystery. Kathlyn Williams, cinema star, and wife of Charlie Eyton, general manager of Famous-Players Lasky company, was also a visitor at the undertakers to view the body. Robert [sic] O'Conner, director under Taylor, called at the undertaking parlors also. Many telephone calls have been received at the funeral parlors regarding the case. Inquest over the body of the motion picture director will probably be held early Saturday morning. No funeral arrangements have been made. Police have not located the relatives of the deceased man.
1922-02-02	Detectives seeking a solution to the mysterious slaying of William Desmond Taylor are considering the following theories: 1--A woman, jealous of a rival, killed him. 2--A jealous woman sent a hired assassin or an infatuated admirer to kill him. 3--A jealous suitor of a woman who favored Taylor killed him. 4--A forger killed him to destroy evidence of his crime from among the checks Taylor was sorting. 5--A robber slipped into the house and, surprised by Taylor's return, killed him and fled because he feared to stop for loot. 6--A former servant accused by him of criminal acts killed him for revenge. 7--An aspirant for movie honors, rejected by Taylor, killed him. 8--A woman, to make sure Taylor never would reveal her secret, killed him or had him killed. The investigators, weighing all the evidence, incline to one of the first three possibilities.
1922-02-03	Mr. Taylor was a man who knew everything,' said Miss Normand. 'If I wanted to know the meaning of an unusual word I did not have to take the trouble to look it up in the dictionary. I just had my secretary telephone Mr. Taylor.'
1922-02-03	Officers last night were concentrating their efforts on locating a mysterious desperado who is sought as the slayer of William Desmond Taylor, one of the best known directors in the motion picture world, who was found murdered at his bungalow home of 404-B South Alvarado street yesterday morning. The officers were diligently following the trail of the mysterious man after they learned that several times the strange nocturnal visitor had been driven away by Taylor at the point of a gun. But two weeks ago, the investigators said Taylor found this man trying to gain entrance to the bungalow by means of a bedroom window. The window was half open and Taylor is said to have driven him away. Many times the murdered director is said to have heard unusual noises about the house and upon investigation found the unwelcome visitor prowling about the building or premises, but each time Taylor flourished a gun and drove him away. And then again, the police say in trying to weave a chain of incriminating evidence about the hunted man, Taylor received telephone calls which brought forth no response when he answered. It is believed the calls came from this person who was ascertaining if any one was at home at the bungalow. It was within half an hour after Mabel Normand, famous screen actress, and Taylor had a chat early Wednesday evening that he was killed, the police believe. They are also trying to run down clews which they say have found and which indicate that jealousy or revenge was the motive. They are inclined to believe that the former is the possible solution of the death. That a man committed the crime is based upon information furnished by Mrs. Douglas MacLean, wife of the film star, who lives next door to the Taylor home, and by her maid. They say they saw a mysterious man at the Taylor home before and after the murder. A .38 caliber steel-nose bullet caused Taylor's death. This was determined and the bullet found when Autopsy Surgeon Wagner performed a post mortem on the body early last night. The bullet had penetrated the back beneath the left shoulder blade, pierced the heart and then took a right upward course into the neck, where it lodged. While three theories are being considered by the police, certain material clews developed late yesterday lead them to believe that behind the tragedy is the shadow of a woman. The partly told story of Taylor's murder is this: At 6:45 Wednesday night he ate dinner in his little bungalow court home. He was alone. His servant was the only other person in the house. Shortly after 7 o'clock, Miss Mabel Normand. famous screen star, and whose engagement to the slain man had been generally rumored for many months but, denied by her, went to the Taylor home. She remained according to her story to the police, until about 7:45 o'clock. She had called for the purpose of obtaining a book that Taylor desired her to read. When she left, Taylor escorted her to her automobile, waiting at the entrance to the bungalow court. When Taylor departed from the house with Miss Normand he left the door open. What happened? The servant, Henry Peavey, a negro who has been with Taylor for about six months, said Miss Normand and Taylor were together in the living room when he left to go to his own home about 7:20 o'clock. Yesterday morning, as was his custom, he arrived to prepare breakfast at 7:30 o'clock. He had a key to the front door and opened it. He started to go in and then noticed Taylor lying on his back with his feet near the door. The servant did not enter. When Taylor faded to answer his alarmed cries he rushed to the home of a neighbor and called the police. Some time between 7:45 o'clock and 7:55 o'clock the night before, Taylor had been shot. Here are the theories on which police detectives are concentrating their efforts. Taylor was shot by-- 1. A woman he had scorned or whom he had enraged. 2. A discarded suitor of some woman with whom he had been friendly. 3. A burglar who was surprised by Taylor when he returned to the house after escorting Miss Normand to her car. Among the clews being followed by the police is one furnished by employees at the Morosco Theater, who stated that several weeks ago a man inquired for Taylor's address and by his insistence and strange actions aroused their suspicions. The officers are trying to locate this individual, who would not take 'no' for an answer to his questions as to where the director resided. A former secretary whom Taylor had caused to be arrested for forgery and who is said to have threatened his life, is being sought for information he may be able to give bearing on the case. Taylor is known to have been friendly with many women. He is said to have been a man of charming personality and of considerable magnetism. Outside of one particular prominent woman he was not known, say police, to have been particularly interested in any one. It is possible, say police, that some man, enamored of any one of the women with whom Taylor might have been on friendly terms, could have become enraged, waited his opportunity at the Taylor home, and then killed Taylor from ambush. Every possible angle of Taylor's private life is now being investigated by the detectives in connection with the first two theories. That the second will prove to be correct the officers believe. This belief is based on what Mrs. Douglas MacLean, wife of a motion picture director, residing in the house next to that of Taylor, saw. At 7:10, according to Mrs. MacLean's maid, Mr. and Mrs. MacLean sat down to dinner. While the second course was being served the maid claims to have heard footsteps of a man in a rear alley running between the two houses. She commented upon it to her employers, but thought nothing of it until she heard of the murder yesterday morning. At 7:50 o'clock, six minutes after Miss Normand left with Taylor to go to her machine, Mrs. MacLean heard a shot and went to her door. A man was just leaving the Taylor home. He was not Sands, the valet. Mrs. MacLean is sure of this, she says. She knew Sands. When she saw the man he was just stepping through the door. He turned half-way around, glanced back through the door and then pulled it shut. He saw her, she says, as she stood watching him, but did not show any alarm. She closed her door just as he started away from the Taylor home. He walked, she declared, not out to Alvarado street to the main entrance, but disappeared through the alley leading between Taylor's house and hers. The mysterious visitor was large of stature. wore dark rough clothing and had a muffler and cap on. She could not see his face. This man, the police believe, is the murderer. They believe it was he whom the MacLean's maid heard as she was serving dinner. It is probable, they think, that he was acquainted with Taylor's habits. Friends say that Taylor left the door open when he left his home for a few minutes. The mysterious visitor is believed to have secreted himself around the corner of the house and watched until Taylor came out with Miss Normand. As the two walked toward the film star's car, the assassin probably hurried into the house through the door left open by his victim. When Taylor was found his body was lying with the head toward the east wall, directly in front of a writing desk. The feet were near the door, the legs outstretched. He was on his back. It is the police theory that when he returned to the house after bidding Miss Normand good night he sat down at the desk to work. An open check book was lying on the desk, a pen nearby, when the murder was discovered. The murderer, waiting behind a pillar in the room, stepped out when he believed Taylor to be settled in the chair and fired. The bullet entered below the left shoulder blade and penetrated the heart. Taylor died instantly, pitched forward and in failing upset the chair. The chair was found lying across his legs when the body was discovered. Intimate friends say that it was the one used by Taylor at his desk. The murderer is then believed to have hurried to the door, glanced back just as Mrs. MacLean discovered him and then fled through the alley. When Peavey, the servant, saw the body of his dead master, as he opened the front door yesterday morning, screaming into the bungalow court yard, Mrs. Verne Dumas, who heard his cries, called the police. Detectives who responded made a casual examination, but did not turn the body over until Coroner Nance reached the scene. The first report issued from the headquarters was that Taylor had died of natural of causes. As soon as it became known that the director had been murdered Detective Captain David Adams assigned every available officer to the case. Officials from the public administrator's office were sent to the house and took charge of the dead man's personal effects. Thousands of dollars worth of jewels were found in his bedroom. A half completed income tax blank lying on the desk showed his annual income to be $37,000. Coroner Nance ordered the body sent to the undertaking parlors of Ivy Overholtzer on South Flower street and detectives then began the work of running down the murderer. According to Peavey, the servant, his murdered master had no enemies that he knew of nor had he had any difficulty with any guest that had visited the house while he was present. When he left for the night Wednesday, Taylor seemed to be in high spirits and was conversing in an animated manner with Miss Normand. Police are convinced that the servant can throw no light on the mystery. Miss Normand told Detective Sergeants Wallace and Ziegler that she had gone to two jewelry stores downtown before she went to Taylor's home. They were closed and after buying some peanuts from a vendor at Seventh street and Broadway and a copy of the Police Gazette she hurried to Taylor's home. Her story and that of her chauffeur, William Davis, coincide. Miss Normand claims that she left the Taylor home about 7:45 o'clock, and that the director walked with her to the machine, leaving, as was his custom, the door open behind him. When they reached the car, she says, her chauffeur had been reading the magazine. He hastily threw it aside and Taylor saw it. The couple had been discussing literature and he chided her good naturedly about reading that type of magazine. She says that after she left Taylor at the curbing she immediately returned to her home. While in Taylor's home she had discussed with Taylor a certain charge made against his negro servant involving social vagrancy. Miss Normand was informed by motion picture friends of the tragedy soon after the body was discovered. She refused to receive callers outside of headquarters officers and close intimate friends. To further the theory that Taylor was killed by some one other than his former valet, police point to a story told by a guest in the Dumas home, near by, who claims that on last Monday night early he saw two men go up to the door of the Taylor home, try the door with a key and then walk away. One of these men is believed to have been the murderer. Several others in the block beside Mr. and Mrs. MacLean claim to have heard the fatal shot. E. C. Jessurum, owner of the court, who was ill in bed heard it and called it to the attention of his wife. who was reading to him. Not hearing a second shot, they thought nothing of the interruption. One of the first visitors at the Taylor home after police detectives had taken charge was Mary Miles Minter, mutual friend of Miss Normand and the murdered man. Friends had informed her of the tragedy. Accompanied by her mother, she hurried to the Taylor home, but was met at the door by Detective Sergeant Hermann Cline, who briefly told her what had happened. She became hysterical and it was several minutes before she could talk coherently. She said that Taylor had directed her in three pictures and that she considered him an intimate friend. She knew of no enemies that might have sought his death, she said. 'Why, he was a wonderful man,' she added, 'and every one that knew him loved him.' This sentiment was voiced too, by her mother. Miss Minter said that the last time she saw Taylor was Wednesday afternoon, when she met him at the corner of Seventh and Alvarado streets. That Taylor had a premonition of his death and told several friends was learned last night. According to Mrs. J. M. Berger, income tax specialist, who is at present engaged by Miss Normand, the murdered man told her Wednesday afternoon that 'he felt that something was going to happen to him.' They laughed the subject away, though, and apparently Taylor forgot it. He told the same thing to other persons--friends in the motion picture colony, but all ridiculed the idea. The house in which Taylor was found is lavishly furnished. The lower floor consists of a living room, dining room and kitchen. Upstairs, with the stairway leading from the dining room, are two bedrooms. One of these rooms was used by Taylor to sleep in. The other was reserved as a guest chamber. Photographs, all of them affectionately autographed, of famous stars, whom Taylor had directed are the most conspicuous decorations in the living room. These include one of Mary Pickford, who describes Taylor as 'the most patient man I ever knew.' A search of the house by detectives and the deputy police administrator revealed a large quantity of expensive bonded liquors. This was taken charge of together with his other personal effects. Late yesterday afternoon Detective Captain Adams assigned Detectives Sergeants Hermann Cline, Murphy and Winn to the case. The detectives, after interviewing Miss Normand's chauffeur, admitted that the case is one of the most baffling that has confronted the Los Angeles department for many years. Sands, the former valet being sought, is said to be in Los Angeles, and several friends of Taylor told police last night that they had seen him. Every officer has been furnished with his description and given orders to arrest him on sight. Police are not yet ready, they say, to implicate him in the murder, but he is the one known man who would have a motive for desiring Taylor's death, and his explanation of where he was on the night of the murder is anxiously awaited by officers. If he is innocent, they believe, despite felony warrant already issued for him, he will surrender rather than take the chance of being accused of suspicion of murder by remaining in hiding.
1922-02-03	Miss Edna Purviance, who lived in the two-story bungalow adjoining the home of William D. Taylor, the Lasky film director who was shot Wednesday night, said that when she returned to her home some time near midnight Wednesday she noticed lights burning in Mr. Taylor's house, but that as Mr. Taylor was given to burning the midnight oil, being a great reader, she thought nothing of it. 'I was awakened,' said Miss Purviance last night, 'early Thursday morning by the terrifying voice of some one who seemed to be running up and down the court, screaming, 'Mr. Taylor is dead! Mr. Taylor is dead!' I looked out the window and saw his negro boy Henry, who was almost frantic with grief, as he was very much attached to Mr. Taylor. 'Before they found the bullet wound in Mr. Taylor's back they thought he had died of heart disease, and that seemed terrible enough, but when we learned he had been murdered, almost at our own door, it seemed too horrible to believe. 'I knew Mr. Taylor only very slightly. I had never worked with him and had only met him to a purely formal social way. I thought him to be a very interesting, likable, discerning gentleman, with gallant, polished manners and a brilliant intellect. 'I always heard him spoken of as a man with a reputation above reproach and a nature that was kind and generous. Although living as a near neighbor, I saw him very infrequently and knew nothing of his private life or of his love affairs, if he had any. I knew that he and Miss Normand were good friends but knew nothing of heart interest on either side.'
1922-02-03	There were tears on the cheek of Henry Peavey, colored, who for six months had been employed as William Desmond Taylor's valet, as he told the story yesterday of how he discovered the murdered man's body upon entering the apartment yesterday morning. The night before, when Peavey left to go to his own home, Taylor called a cheery, 'Good night, Henry.' 'I can hear his voice yet,' said this humble mourner. 'It was the kind of strong, friendly voice that made a man feel good.' And then he burst out, 'I'd be willing to go to jail for the rest of my life if I could get the man that did it.' The valet was at his last task for the master; he was wiping up the blood from the floor, but his sobs shook him at times so that he could not proceed. 'I've worked for a lot of men,' he went on, 'but Mr. Taylor was the most wonderful of all of them. I came here this morning intending to fix his bath and get his breakfast, which I always does. And before the bath I'd bring him a dose of medicine. It was always just the same--for breakfast two soft- boiled-eggs, toast, and a glass of orange juice. 'And having it in my mind to make everything just as nice as I could, knowing he would be pleased and say a kind word, I opened the door. 'And then I found him stretched out on the floor, which was all bloody and his feet toward the door. 'And then I backed to the door, pretty near overcome with horror, and yelled for the landlord. The way I figure it is that somebody slipped in last night when Mr. Taylor took Miss Normand to the car and shot him from hiding. But how could any one kill such a man as he was?' Peavey lives at 127 1/2 East Third street. His habit was to reach the Taylor apartment before breakfast and leave after dinner.
1922-02-03	All the picture studios in Los Angeles were in mourning yesterday. The mysterious murder of William Desmond Taylor shocked the entire motion picture colony and held the focus of attention on every 'lot' in Los Angeles. It is probable that no man in the motion picture business had more friends than the slain director. He had directed virtually every well-known star and thus had come in contact with hundreds of men and women in the various studios in which he had worked. The majority of those who learned the circumstances of Taylor's mysterious death were inclined toward the theory that robbery was the motive. They believe a sneak thief had entered the house during Taylor's temporary absence and that Taylor discovered his presence on his return. The subsequent struggle and shot, they believe, frightened the marauder away without any booty. Comments were heard in many studios on the fact that Taylor had had trouble with Ed. F. Sands, former valet-secretary to the dead man. A felony warrant has been out for Sands for several months and many friends of Mr. Taylor expressed a strong wish to learn Sands' present whereabouts. The theory that there was a 'love motive' in the crime and that its unraveling will reveal a woman either as the instigator, perpetrator or unconscious motive for the shooting was scoffed at by Taylor's friends. From every 'lot' in Los Angeles came the testimony that Taylor had led a life unusually free from feminine entanglements. Charles Eyton, studio manager at Lasky's was emphatic in discrediting the 'Cherchez la Femme' theory of the crime... The same opinion ruled among the press representatives at the Laksy studio where Taylor was well known and warmly admired. Arch Reeve, Barrett Kiesling and Al Wilkie, all of whom had known Taylor for years were convinced that robbery was the motive for the killing. They described him as a man of solitary habits, quiet and reserved, whose name the breath of scandal never had touched... Mary Miles Minter was another star who was greatly shocked by the occurrence. With tears streaming down her face she recalled incidents that happened the last time she had talked with the director...
1922-02-03	Miss Mabel Normand, Mack Sennett film star, who was probably the last friend to see William D. Taylor, the Lasky film director who was shot Wednesday night, alive, told in detail late yesterday afternoon, the time and the incidents of her visit to his home early in the evening, previous to the shooting, and stated that she had no doubt that the person who shot him was the man who had twice robbed him and who had annoyed him with mysterious telephone calls recently. 'There was no affair of the heart whatever between William D. Taylor and myself,' said Miss Normand yesterday afternoon at her beautiful home in West Seventh and Vermont avenue. 'His friendship for me was that of an older man for a girl who liked the outdoor sports he liked and who was eager to glean a little enlightenment from the vast storehouse of knowledge which he possessed. 'Mr. Taylor was a man who knew everything. If I wanted to know the meaning of an unusual word I did not have to take the trouble to hunt up a dictionary. I just had my secretary telephone Mr. Taylor. If I wanted to find the name of a painter or sculptor of some rare work of art he was sure to know that, too, and if I were puzzling over some classical or scientific reference in my reading, I only had to ask him to have the entire matter explained, for besides having the education and the instincts of an artist, he was a deep student of science as well. 'I liked to go out with Mr. Taylor because there was a certain protective dignity in his quiet high bred manner that prevented the obtrusive, offensively familiar person who had only seen my face on the screen, from running up and saying, 'Hello, Mabel!' and we were the best of pals. I think Mr. Taylor had the finest, highest sense of honor of almost any one I have ever known, and I respected him and admired him more than I can tell. My chief liking for him, however, was because of his wonderful brain and the things he could teach me. I am studying French, and as he spoke French fluently he was of great assistance to me and there was hardly a day that he did not recommend some book to me to read. It was to get a book he had phoned about that I went to his house Wednesday evening about 7 o'clock. 'I had been downtown shopping and was at my bank and phoned home to my housekeeper to know if there had been any calls for me. She said Mr. Taylor had phoned that he had the book I wanted, so I attended to a few errands and had my chauffeur drive me by Mr. Taylor's home. I sat down for a few minutes, commented on the change he had made in some bookcases, I had not seen the place in a couple of months. We talked a little of books and plays and he asked me to stay for dinner, saying that although he had had his dinner, he wanted me to try a certain kind of rice pudding his cook had made, but I told him that I had phoned home I would be back to dinner and they were expecting me. 'He then told his colored boy that I would not be staying for dinner and the boy went out just ahead of us. Mr. Taylor took me to my car and on the floor of the car were a number of magazines, some of them, were rather light and I suppose sensational. Mr. Taylor expressed surprise that I read such things and rather upbraided me for having such low-brow taste. He gave me the book, as I got in the car. It was one of Freud's latest, and said I will phone after while and see how you like it. That was the last I ever heard his voice. This morning when Edna Purviance rushed in and said Mr. Taylor was dead I was sure it was all some horrible mistake. 'I came home from Mr. Taylor's house, had my dinner and was in bed before 9 o'clock. I read a little while and when he did not phone I wondered a little and then thought no more about it and went to sleep. 'Mr. Taylor was so uniformly kind to every one. It seems horrible that he should have met a death of this kind, and with the exception of the man who had been in his employ and who had robbed him, I cannot believe he had an enemy in the world. He had a warrant sworn out for the man, but he had never been apprehended. Yesterday Mr. Taylor told his secretary that he had a strange presentment about this man and wished he had not had the warrant sworn-out. 'I wish there were something I could do to throw some light on this terrible tragedy, but it was mere chance that took me to his door a few hours before it happened and I feel very indignant as do also the members of my household and the managers and directors of my company, that my name should have been unnecessarily connected with the unhappy event. Any one, out of scores of his acquaintances might have called at his house on that particular evening and it seemed a cruel thing to me that I should be questioned about it. 'I have known Mr. Taylor for six or seven years. He had high ideals regarding his work and a far reaching vision that made him have great faith in the wonderful things that the moving picture has yet to do. He not only had an eye for beautiful objects and harmony of composition and arrangement, but he had a soul that appreciated the abstract beauty that these things stood for as symbols. To him loyalty, honor, faith, justice and beauty were realities. They were forces that move the world onward and sculpture out recognized qualities in the human countenance. And it was the clean, wholesome beautiful things of life that he wanted to portray on screen. 'Mr. Taylor was a wonderful conversationalist because he observed everything and everybody with the eye of understanding sympathy. He could tell of his travels in Alaska or his trips through Europe and the stories would not be merely geographical descriptions of countries and customs, but philosophical observations that made all of his experiences a commentary on life. 'I feel proud to have called such a man friend and am sorry that his extreme modesty and diffidence kept many from knowing the depth and brilliance of his true nature. But he was not in the least pedantic or high- browish. He was full of wit and jest and he would tease and twit me about things I did or wore, and sometimes we would have a perfect gab fest, in slang, just like a couple of kids. He was just an all around, sure-enough human being. 'I am just in the middle of a big picture and, of course, I am going right on working, but the sudden news of the tragic death of such a friend as this was naturally a great shock to me and I am all broken up today.' Besieged by friends, members of her profession and representatives of the press, Miss Normand denied herself to all callers yesterday and remained in the seclusion of her room, a dainty rose and old ivory boudoir whose walls are lined with books of verse, of plays, of fiction, philosophy, science and history. There were books on the dresser, scattered all over gold-mounted toilet articles, big fat books on art sprawling all over a chaise-lounge, and on a little stand by her bed there were some volumes of poetry and psycho- analytical philosophy. 'Yes, I do read a great deal,' confessed Miss Normand, 'one has to in order to understand what other people are talking about and most of the books you see here were either given me or suggested by Mr. Taylor. I sometimes wondered how he ever got the time to read all the different kinds, of things he had read. 'Mr. Taylor was a man who would have been a credit to any profession on the face of the earth, because he lived a clean, wholesome, upright, life of kindness and usefulness to his fellow beings. Those of us who believe in our art and our profession and have ideals and ambitions for the attainment of success and for that thing which is valued above great riches, a good name, feel that we have not only lost a personal friend but that the profession has lost a rare exemplar whose influence will be missed by all.'
1922-02-03	Miss Edna Purviance, who lived in the two-story bungalow adjoining the home of William D. Taylor, the Lasky film director who was shot Wednesday night, said that when she returned to her home some time near midnight Wednesday she noticed lights burning in Mr. Taylor's house, but that as Mr. Taylor was given to burning the midnight oil, being a great reader, she thought nothing of it. 'I was awakened,' said Miss Purviance last night, 'early Thursday morning by the terrifying voice of some one who seemed to be running up and down the court, screaming, 'Mr. Taylor is dead! Mr. Taylor is dead!' I looked out the window and saw his Negro boy Henry, who was almost frantic with grief, as he was very much attached to Mr. Taylor. 'Before they found the bullet wound in Mr. Taylor's back they thought he had died of heart disease, and that seemed terrible enough, but when we learned he had been murdered, almost at our own door, it seemed too horrible to believe. 'I knew Mr. Taylor only very slightly. I had never worked with him and had only met him to a purely formal social way. I thought him to be a very interesting, likable, discerning gentleman, with gallant, polished manners and a brilliant intellect. 'I always heard him spoken of as a man with a reputation above reproach and a nature that was kind and generous. Although living as a near neighbor,I saw him very infrequently and knew nothing of his private life or of his love affairs, if he had any. I knew that he and Miss Normand were good friends but knew nothing of heart interest on either side.'
1922-02-03	The names of two young film actresses and a man who has so far not figured in the case were linked by the police today in their investigation into the slaying of William Desmond Taylor, noted film director. The names of these persons are for the time being withheld by the police. The man, however, is known to have had a bitter quarrel with Taylor within the last month. He is under surveillance. Another man, who has already been questioned by the police, is also being watched and may again be quizzed before dawn tomorrow. The police are convinced that he has not told all he may know of circumstances surrounding the case. These facts are the outstanding ones today in the now famous murder mystery, known in police circles as the Taylor murder. It is calling forth the best efforts of seven detective sergeants, and many plainclothes officers. Subpenas for more than a half score of film stars and men prominent in the motion picture industry were served by police detectives today for the inquest at 1:30 o'clock tomorrow afternoon over the body of Taylor. Among those who will testify will be Mary Miles Minter, Douglas MacLean, Mabel Normand, Edna Purviance, Charles Eyton, Mrs. Douglas MacLean and Mrs. Julia Crawford Ivers. The inquest will be conducted by Coroner Nance and his chief assistant, William McDonald, in the mortuary of the Ivy H. Overholtzer undertaking establishment. Directly after Detective Sergeants Ziegler and Walls had left with the subpenas, Detective Sergeants Wood, Murphy, Herman Cline, Winn, Cato and Cahill left for separate places to run down clues that had been sent to Detective Capt. Dave Adams within the last 12 hours. These officers were to meet late today to report to Captain Adams the results of their quests. In the meantime it is known that two of the officers were questioning closely Taylor's chauffeur, in an effort to learn the places he had taken the film director during the last few weeks that might reveal some clew as to the identity of possible enemies... One important fact was brought out by Detective Sergeant Herman Cline, opening up theories of possible robbery as motive. It was known to several friends that on Wednesday Taylor had in his possession in gold and currency $2300. He had intended putting this money in the bank the following day, but for some unknown reason he visited the bank late Wednesday and deposited the money. It is the belief of Sergeant Cline that if robbery was the motive the burglar after firing the shot became frightened that the noise might have aroused some persons in the neighborhood, and fled without attempting to steal anything... Several things have been discovered in Taylor's past, the officers say, that may assist in solving the mystery. The police today were close on the trail of a man who three hours before the murder made inquiries in the neighborhood as to the location of Taylor's home... Taylor was a man who possessed great nerve and coolness under any circumstances. Friends say he probably would have refused to obey the order of a burglar to hold up his hands. Such being the case, it is possible according to the robbery theory that the burglar fired the one shot that ended the man's life... An investigation was also put under way to determine whether or not the mysterious telephone calls frequently received by Taylor might lead to the identity of the murderer. The director, his friends say, often told of the calls in the night. When he answered there was no answer, it is said. This phase of the situation, however, the police believe, indicates that some one laid careful plans for the murder of the director and had long borne a grudge against him...
1922-02-03	Police said today that the arrest of a mystery man seen loitering in the vicinity of the Taylor residence about the time of the murder was believed near. This man, seen by many persons, was suspected of having killed Taylor because of jealousy. It was believed that the man under suspicion was intimate with some woman friend of the slain director...
1922-02-03	Star Talks of Slain Man 'No, I never was engaged to marry William Desmond Taylor, I regret to say.' This statement was made by pretty Mary Miles Minter in an interview at her home last night. 'Do you know where his ex-wife and daughter are?' Miss Minter was asked. Miss Minter's violet colored eyes flashed fire. 'Why he had no wife--he was never married. I'm positive of that,' she replied. 'But, maybe Mary, he didn't tell you he was married,' broke in Mother, Charlotte Shelby. 'But mother, I knew him so well--I am sure he wasn't married. I asked him if he was, and he told me no.'
1922-02-03	Detectives today were known to be quietly seeking a young New York broker, whose identity is being kept secret, to question him in an effort to bring to light more facts about the murder. This young man is said to have been prominent in movie society. He is described as a friend of a prominent movie actress. ...Detectives gave no intimation of what light they believed he might possibly shed on the mysterious slaying.
1922-02-03	...Peavey said that Taylor was bothered very often by telephone calls. He would answer the phone and the party who called would hang up.
1922-02-03	Detectives admitted late today that they had under surveillance a prominent young man who might possibly be linked with the murder of William Desmond Taylor, prominent motion picture director, who was found shot to death in his luxurious apartments at 404-B South Alvarado street. The detectives have been watching this mysterious man all day. They would not divulge his name, but said that they were confident that he may have had something to do with the shooting of Taylor. If he tries to leave town, it is said, he will be taken into custody. An expert gunsmith, whose name was not divulged, has offered his services to Captain of Detectives David Adams. He is to take the bullet which was extracted from Taylor's body and by examination tell what kind of gun was used. The inquest will be held at 10 a.m. tomorrow, it was announced late today. The inquest was originally scheduled to be held at 1:30 p.m. Two witnesses, who were questioned today, and said to be very prominent in the motion picture world, declared they saw two men, one of whom answered the description of Edward Sands, loitering about the Taylor home some time before the shooting. The time of the shooting has been placed at between 7:45 p.m. and 8:15. Taylor's chauffeur told the detectives that he tried to call his employer at 8:15 on the night of the murder, and was unable to get him. He said he assumed that the director had stepped out. Detectives today were known to be quietly seeking a young New York broker, whose identity is being kept secret, to question him in an effort to bring to light more facts about the murder. This young man is said to have been prominent in movie society. He is described as a friend of a prominent movie actress. He came from the east, according to the story which detectives are investigating, shortly after the actress returned from a trip to New York, which she made some months ago. Detectives gave no intimation of what light they believed he might possibly shed on the mysterious slaying... Police detectives are concentrating today on the theory that Taylor probably was murdered by a 'love killer'--a man who resented Taylor's attention to some woman... A guest in the Dumas home next to Taylor said he saw two men last Monday night in the court yard. The men, the guest said, went to the door of Taylor's home, tried the door with a key, then walked away. One of these men, the police believe, is probably the murderer. Taylor's colored valet, Harry [sic] Peavey, who found the body, said that on several occasions Taylor had been annoyed by mysterious persons walking around his house. He said that on one occasion he asked Taylor why he didn't carry his gun. 'Somebody is liable to walk up those stairs when you're in your bedroom,' he said he told Taylor, 'and hold you up.' 'No, he won't,' Peavey said Taylor replied. 'I keep my gun on the bureau, and if I hear anyone walking up those stairs and he doesn't answer when I call him, he's a goner.' Peavey said Taylor did drive away these nocturnal visitors on several occasions at the point of a gun.... The newest clues, vague, but showing possibilities of untangling the mystery point to two or more unrequited loves for the murdered man. These women, beautiful, young and prominent, are said to have displayed affections for Taylor, who it is reported did not reciprocate. Tips over the telephone and by letter have come to the police station regarding the mystery slaying. So many angles of this case have developed that it is difficult to find any tangible clue that would lead to the discovery of the assassin....
1922-02-03	If I had been engaged to marry Mr. Taylor, I would be only too proud to acknowledge it.' In such manner did Miss Mabel Normand, movie star, reiterate to me her denial of any engagement with William D. Taylor, the director, who was murdered Wednesday evening. Tears were in Miss Normand's eyes, her lithe body quivered and shook. She was under a terrible nervous strain. Her voice quavered and broke while she spoke of the dead man. 'I had known Mr. Taylor for years,' she continued, 'ever since I've lived at the Buckingham, but there never was any love affair existing between us--ever!' 'I loved Mr. Taylor as a good comrade--a pal with whom I could discuss subjects in which we were both mutually interested. For instance, I had been studying French and Mr. Taylor, who spoke French fluently, helped me tremendously. And, too, I have been somewhat interested in philosophy and metaphysics, and in those subjects he was again an invaluable teacher. 'I seldom saw Mr. Taylor, it's true, except at a gathering of friends. But frequently I conversed with him over the telephone. As a general rule merely to ask certain questions regarding the subjects I just mentioned. 'Wednesday evening was the first time I ever called upon Mr. Taylor alone. Then I stopped in for a few minutes on my way home in response to a message from Mr. Taylor left with my secretary. The message stated that Mr. Taylor already had sent one book I wanted to the house and had purchased another--one I wanted particularly--and had it at his place. It was for that book that I stopped by. 'I arrived about 7 o'clock and left at 7:45. He accompanied me to my car and talked to me a few minutes, laughingly criticizing my literary taste; there was a copy of the Police Gazette in the car and he thought it didn't very well fit in with Freud and Nietsche. 'After saying good night and promising to phone me within an hour, I directed William, my chauffeur, to drive me home. Being tired and having a studio call at 7:30 next morning, I retired to my room and within a few minutes I was in bed, where I had dinner served to me. That was about 8:15. Then I dropped off to sleep and slept until Edna Purviance phoned me the following morning the news of Mr. Taylor's death. 'Did I know that Mr. Taylor had been married? No. I don't know now that he was. People had told me, but I don't know if it was true. Mr. Taylor never discussed with me his private affairs; there was no reason for his doing so. 'I am so terribly shocked over this horrible tragedy I don't know what to do or say. It doesn't seem possible that anyone so lovable--a man who had so many friends and not a known enemy could have been so brutally killed. 'My one wish is that the murderer be apprehended and that punishment, however horrible, be meeted out to him.'
1922-02-03	No, I never was engaged to marry William Desmond Taylor, I regret to say. 'No, I was not at his home on the night he was murdered. I was at my home reading a book. 'I had seen very little of him since we returned from Europe a year ago. 'He didn't have an enemy in the world. 'I am positive he was never married, because he would have told me so if he was. 'I love little Mabel Normand and I want the whole world to know that I love her, and appreciate her sterling qualities.' These were the outstanding statements regarding the mysterious murder of her former director, William Desmond Taylor, made by pretty Mary Miles Minter in an interview at her home last night. Curled up before the fireplace of her quaint adobe home with its soft lights and Spanish furnishings, the lovely blonde star was the center of an interested group of newspaper folk, who wished to employ her aid in solving the murder of the man so brutally slain. Miss Minter has a cold. She was exposed to a cold water bath in the filming of a picture last week, and is recuperating from her experience. But in an attractive dark frock that set off her blonde beauty and with golden hair, she was a pretty picture sitting before the crackling flames. Never in her varied but successful career has the screen star figured in a more interesting story than the one in which her former director lost his life. Miss Minter wants to help clear up the mystery and do all in her power to bring the slayer to justice. 'I could use every praiseworthy adjective in the English language to describe him,' she said, 'and still could not explain to you what a wonderful man he was. 'I had never met a man like him. He was loved by everyone who knew him. You just couldn't help trusting him. 'And everyone who ever had business dealings with him appreciated his kindness, consideration for others, his generosity. 'Just think,' the star broke down, 'here I was home, reading a book-- enjoying it so much--and he was lying there in his apartment, stone dead. 'Oh, I cannot believe that he has been murdered! 'Why, I went to his house this morning--mamma and I (pointing to her charming grandmother, Mrs. Mary Miles)--I always call grandma 'mamma' and mother 'mother'--and I couldn't believe he was dead! 'I loved him--of course not as--well, you know--but I loved him devotedly. He looked upon me more or less as a child, don't you know. And, although I saw a great deal of him before I went to Europe, after we got back we couldn't drag him away from his work, could we, mother?' the star asked her youthful parent, Mrs. Selby [sic], who smiled indulgently upon her pretty daughter. 'No,' said Mrs. Selby, 'he was more a hard worker. Really, he was more interested in his business than anything else. 'Do you know where his ex-wife and daughter are?' Miss Minter was asked. Miss Minter's violet colored eyes flashed fire. 'Why he had no wife--he was never married. I'm positive of that!' she replied. 'But, maybe Mary, he didn't tell you he was married,' broke in Mother. 'But mother, I knew him so well--I am sure he wasn't married. I asked him if he was, and he told me no. 'I don't think he was interested in women particularly,' said the star. 'I never was engaged to marry him--no, it wouldn't be fair to say that I was. Of course,' she laughed, 'every once in a while someone has me engaged to someone--they've had me engaged to eight men this year. 'You see he was nearly 50 years old--and although if I loved him and he was 75 I would marry him--but oh, no, there was nothing to that.' 'Had you heard of a romance between Mabel Normand and Mr. Taylor?' Miss Minter was asked. 'No, I hadn't,' she said, 'but I don't think there was anything to that. If it is true that he had asked to marry her, well I am glad that he and Mabel were such good friends. Mabel is a lovely girl. She is frank--if she wants to do anything she does it--that's why I admire Mabel. 'And she is big-hearted and noble of character. I love Mabel Normand.' 'When did you see Mr. Taylor last?' the actress was asked. 'Let's see,' she pondered. 'I hadn't seen dear old Mr. Taylor since before Christmas. In fact, I hadn't seen him in a year. Oh, yes, we passed him on the boulevard yesterday --just think, it was a few hours before he was murdered.' Miss Minter was almost in tears. 'Have they found his former valet?' she asked suddenly. She intimated that she believed Edward F. Sands was the villain, but she said: 'It would be unfair to accuse anyone of the crime. Maybe a crank or some demented person committed it. Did you see 'The Bat' at the Mason? There is a mystery story that would thrill you. You would sit on the edge of the seat while it is showing. I saw it in New York.'
1922-02-03	Another tip in connection with the Taylor murder mystery 'blew up' at noon today. It was the clue that Edward Sands, former secretary and valet for the murdered man, was being held at the city jail. Upon investigation it was found that a Sands was in jail, but that his name is Edward W. Sands. He was arrested for petty larceny at a downtown department store and sentenced to serve 30 days in the city jail. Sands was given probation several years ago by Judge Craig after his conviction on a charge of grand larceny in connection with the alleged theft of automobile tires. He is now held at the county jail pending a hearing in Judge Reeve's court for violation of parole.
1922-02-03	Henry Peavey, 40, of 127 1/2 East Third street, who found the body of William D. Taylor, famous motion picture director, found murdered in his home at 404B South Alvarado street, was scheduled to go to police court yesterday afternoon to face a charge of social vagrancy. Peavey, according to Patrolman S. G. White, was arrested, charged with being lewd and dissolute in Westlake park a few hours before his employer was murdered. Taylor, it is said, bailed the negro out. His case was taken off the calendar after Taylor's death. No date was set for the trial.
1922-02-03	[from an interview with Julia Crawford Ivers]...Mrs. Ivers then told of the difficulty Mr. Taylor said he had with his valet-secretary, Sands. 'There never was a more devoted man serving another than this man Sands during the first year and a half of his service for Mr. Taylor. Mr. Taylor trusted him with everything. '...Sands read everything he could find. He used to study into the late hours of the night and when Mr. Taylor told me of the various actions attributed to Sands, we all decided the man must have become deranged...'
1922-02-03	Phone Used To Badger Taylor Mysterious telephone calls in the dark hours of the night foreshadowed the murder of William D. Taylor. This important information was given last night by Julia Crawford Ivers, for eight years scenario writer for the slain man and a close associate of his in the film industry. 'A few weeks before Christmas Mr. Taylor told us at the studio that he was considerably annoyed and mystified by telephone calls late at night. He said he would answer the phone only to find there was no one at the other end of the wire when he responded,' Mrs. Ivers said. 'These calls kept on coming at regular intervals, always with the same results. Mr. Taylor said he had not the slightest idea who was calling him or what the purpose was.' Harry Fellows, Mr. Taylor's assistant, confirmed the story. Mr. Taylor told him of these phone calls, he said. ...Mrs. Marjorie Berger said that Mr. Taylor had told her often that he had been getting mysterious phone calls. He talked so funny saying that he had wished sometimes that he had dropped prosecution [of Sands]. Mrs. Berger said: 'Why don't you get somebody to watch [your home]?' But he said, 'Oh, no.'
1922-02-03	Tracing the movements of a man suspected of being the slayer of William Desmond Taylor, internationally known film director, who was shot to death in his Alvarado-street apartments Wednesday night, investigators for The Times last night located four witnesses who saw the man before and after the tragedy. Actuated by motives of revenge due to jealousy, the police believe, the murderer fired the fatal shot as near as can be calculated a few minutes before 7:45 p.m., as Mr. Taylor was seated at his writing desk or just as he returned and closed the door when he returned from escorting Mabel Normand, actress, to her car. Between 7:45 and 7:50 p.m., just after the report of the revolver was heard, Mrs. MacLean, wife of Douglas MacLean, the actor, who lives near the Taylor home, saw a man leaving the Taylor apartments. He was described as being about five feet nine or ten inches tall, of medium build and roughly, but not shabbily dressed in dark clothes and a plaid cap. Shortly before 6 o'clock a man answering this description stopped at the Hartley service station, Sixth and Alvarado streets, and inquired where W. D. Taylor resided. Floyd Hartley, 231 South Bonnie Brae street, and L. A. Grant, in charge of the station, were in the place at the time. The circumstances recited by both of these witnesses tally to the minutest detail. The inquirer was 26 or 27 years old, they said, weighed about 165 pounds, wore a dark suit, probably of blue serge, and a light hat or cap. He had dark hair and was of medium complexion. They directed him to the Alvarado Terrace Apartments and he left the oil station. He walked toward the apartments. That was the last they saw of him. Maryland street runs east and west at the rear of Mr. Taylor's apartment. It is a street car stop on the West First-street car line, but passengers board cars there at only rare intervals, possibly not for months. E. W. Dascomb, conductor, and R. S. Woodard, motorman, stated that a man answering the description boarded their car at either 7:54 or 8:27 p.m. They were not certain which stop it was, but took notice because of the infrequency with which passengers are taken on the Maryland-street stop. 'I took particular notice of this passenger on that account,' said Conductor Dascomb. 'It was an inbound trip. This fellow was about five feet and ten inches tall, fairly well dressed, as I remember, weighed about 165 pounds, and his hat or cap was of a light color. I remember that he wore something tan, but I don't recall whether it was his coat or vest. I can't remember where he got off, but I think I would know him again.' Motorman Woodard recalled that Mr. Grant, in charge of the oil station, had mentioned the circumstances of a man inquiring for Mr. Taylor, and of the similarity in descriptions. The descriptions given by Mrs. MacLean, Mr. Woodward, and Mr. Dascomb tally so closely that authorities believe there is little doubt but what that three people saw the same man. It is believed that the slayer had no automobile. Persons residing in the vicinity have taken special notice of machines parked there 'because the noise kept them awake,' and they do not recall having seen any cars parked on Maryland street that night. This lends confirmation to the theory that the killer boarded a West First-street car. Mrs. J. H. Tander and her three sons reside directly across from Mr. Taylor's apartment at 360 South Alvarado Street. The occupants of the house were awake until after 9:30 p.m. and observed no automobile nor saw anyone loitering in the vicinity. Persons residing at 401 Westlake avenue, the house adjacent from Mr. Taylor's apartments, give similar information. Several hours were devoted yesterday to questioning Mabel Normand, well- known motion-picture actress and asserted fiancee of Mr. Taylor. Miss Normand is the last person thus far found who saw him alive. Her chauffeur, William Davis, also was questioned. Their stories were that Miss Normand left the Taylor apartments, 404-B South Alvarado street, at 7:45 p.m. Wednesday. Mr. Taylor accompanied her to the automobile. Immediately after checking up on this phase of the case the police started a search for the man Mrs. MacLean saw leaving the apartments between 7:45 and 7:50 p.m. soon after the report of a pistol shot was heard. While a search was under way for this man, the police also were making energetic efforts to find E. F. Sands, former secretary of Mr. Taylor, who was accused several months ago of forgery by the latter. Since a warrant was issued for the arrest of Sands on the asserted forgeries no trace of his whereabouts has been found. The tremendous resources of the Famous Players-Lasky organization were offered the police yesterday by Jesse L. Lasky, first vice-president of the company, for the capture of the assassin of the film director. Unlimited supply of money, time and effort was promised to the detectives, and every possible assistance will be given them by Mr. Taylor's friends and former associates, the officers were told. News of the murder stirred the motion-picture colony. Several intimate friends rushed to the home, among them being Mary Miles Minter, who became almost hysterical. The revenge and jealousy motive as a theory was strengthened by the fact that none of the valuables in the apartments or in Mr. Taylor's clothing was disturbed. About $78 in money was in his pocketbook, a two-carat diamond ring was not taken, and his platinum watch also was left. Detective Sergeants Herman Cline, Murphy, Cato, Cahill, Zeigler and Wallace, checked many clews. Among one of the leads furnished the police was a report that a man, eager to see Mr. Taylor, had inquired two days before at the Morosco Theater for his residence address, and insisted on getting it at once. The actions of this man aroused suspicion. An autopsy performed at the Ivy Overholtzer undertaking establishment showed that Mr. Taylor had been shot from the back with a .38-caliber revolver. Only one bullet was found. It entered on the left side toward the back about six inches under the arm pit. The course of the bullet indicated it had gone upwards and it was extracted in the fleshy part of the neck on the right side just below the ear. Both lobes of the left lung had been punctured. The nearest approach to an eyewitness account of the crime was furnished by Mrs. MacLean. About 7:45 p.m. she heard the shot and when she looked out the window she saw a man she described as roughly dressed, wearing a plaid cap, open the door of the Taylor apartment. The porch light was turned on, as were the lights in the rest of the house, she stated. This man paused as he came out of the door, looked around as if talking to some one inside and then left. He walked to an alley that leads to Maryland street, passing between Mr. Taylor's house and that of Mrs. MacLean. The murderer, it is believed, lurked in the shadows back to the Taylor flat and in the narrow alley between it and the garage, waiting for his opportunity. This theory of the police was reinforced last night by the discovery of six cigarette stubs in the immediate vicinity of the back door of the Taylor flat and in the alley facing the east windows of the murdered man's apartment. A maid at the MacLean home also said she heard some one lurking in the alley about 7:15 p.m. and heard the fatal shot about thirty minutes later. The man who smoked the cigarettes was very nervous. The half-smoked cigarettes show that. They were scattered around. One was barely touched. Evidently this one was the last one smoked by the man while waiting. It was found in the alley, leading the detectives to believe that the man threw it away almost immediately after lighting it, and that he watched Mr. Taylor leave the house. The back door of the Taylor flat opens on the sidewalk of the south side of Maryland street, just east of Alvarado. Between the east side of the structure where the Taylor flat is located and the garage used by occupants of the flats in the court is a narrow, cement-paved alley. This alley, too, leads into Maryland street. A large tree affords ample protection from the light on Alvarado street at night, blocks the view of the house. It is in the shadow of this tree, the officers believe, that the murderer lay in wait, smoking his cigarettes. More than half a dozen of matches were found on the lawn between the curb of Maryland street and the back window of the Taylor flat. The opportunity for him to enter the house came, the police believe, when Mr. Taylor escorted Miss Normand to her automobile. During the few minutes required for this, the murderer slipped into the open door and waited behind it for the return of Mr. Taylor, the officers think. Mrs. MacLean, who knows Sands, stated the man who left the Taylor apartment did not look familiar to her. The investigators, however, have not relaxed their efforts to find Sands in order to question him in the hope he may be able to aid them in solving the mystery. Mr. Taylor left the Famous Players-Lasky studio, where he was a director, at 4:30 p.m., Wednesday, according to Barrett Keisling, publicity man. From the story related by Henry Peavey, negro, houseman, who found the body, Mr. Taylor came immediately home, ate dinner and was visited by Miss Normand. Los Angeles and New York film colonies were deeply affected by the news of the murder. Roscoe (Fatty) Arbuckle, awaiting the verdict in his manslaughter trial in San Francisco, said: 'Mr. Taylor's death comes as a great shock to me. We were good friends and never a whisper of scandal arouse about him. He was one of the finest fellows on the 'lot.'' Detective Sergts. Cline, Wynn and Murphy questioned several friends of Mr. Taylor late last night in an effort to obtain any information that may aid in solving the mystery. Detective Sergeants Cato and Cahill, both personal friends of Mr. Taylor, left the police station late last night to question a former sweetheart of Mr. Taylor. They declined to divulge her name. Mary Miles Minter, who was directed in several plays by Mr. Taylor and who holds high regard for him, declared yesterday she could think of no enemies or persons who would have a motive in killing him. She denied reports she had ever been engaged to marry him, saying she was extremely sorry she never had been, because she admired him greatly as a man.
1922-02-03	While the police were endeavoring to solve the mystery of who murdered William D. Taylor, motion picture director, his colored houseman, Henry Peavey, who discovered the body yesterday morning, was slated to appear in Police Court to answer a charge of vagrancy. The case, slated for Judge Chamber's court, was called, but on account of Peavey's absence was put over, the date to be set later. Peavey's arrest followed asserted acts of indecency several days ago in Westlake Park.
1922-02-03	Among the mute evidences of what had taken place in the home of William D. Taylor Wednesday night, when he was shot, was an expensive silver and cut- glass drinking service. On it were a decanter, a shaker used in mixing drinks, and two large glasses with portions of a drink left in them. Cigarette stubs littered the tray. In the glasses was orange pulp, apparently left from an orange and gin concoction. This service was found on the dining-room table. The body was in an adjoining room.
1922-02-03	Mabel Normand, seen at her home at Seventh street and Vermont avenue yesterday, was much agitated over the murder of her old friend, William D. Taylor. She gave a clear and frank statement of all her movements Wednesday afternoon and evening. J. A. Waldron, the Mack Sennett studio manager, was with her all day, answering phone calls and receiving messages, Miss Normand stated. Continuing, she stated that she spent the afternoon downtown, attending principally to income tax matters and to her banking. She then called her home from the bank at Sixth and Main streets and asked if there were any messages for her. Her maid said: 'Mr. Taylor has been trying to get you all the afternoon, and we told him that you were out. We told him you were downtown.' 'He had been trying to get some books for me that I wanted,' said Miss Normand. 'We always discussed books a great deal. He told the maid he had got one of the books at Parker's and was sending it by his chauffeur. He said that he had obtained the other book I wanted at Robinson's, and left word with the maid for me to stop at his house and get it. 'I went and bought 5 cents worth of peanuts, but the man didn't have any change; so I went to the drug store in the Pacific Electric Building and got the change. I bought a lot of magazines and papers, among others a Police Gazette. I ate the peanuts on the way, and we drove out to Mr. Taylor's, and when I got out I told my chauffeur to clean the car. Then I went up on the steps. I heard Mr. Taylor talking to somebody over the phone, underneath the stairs, and I hesitated about going in until he had finished. Then I entered. He had been talking to Mrs. Marjorie Berger, who has charge of the income tax business for many of the picture folk, including myself. 'He came in and said, 'Gee, I am glad to see you.' I said, 'I just came up for the book.' 'I arrived at his house about five minutes after 7. We talked about books. I looked around his drawing-room, and told him I thought he had changed his house furnishings. He said, 'You haven't been here for so long you forgot.' I hadn't been to his house before in two months. He said, 'The Victrola is the only thing new.' 'His servant, Henry, had been arrested for some sort of misconduct, and he was saying that perhaps he would have to go down to court tomorrow (that's today) to see about it. Henry came in, and I said to Mr. Taylor, 'Have you had your dinner?' He said, 'Yes, have you had yours?' I said, 'No, but I am tired, and I'm going home now. I have a studio call for 7 o'clock tomorrow morning.' I've been going to bed very early every night--haven't been anywhere since I began work on my present picture. 'We were talking about the cameraman's ball next Saturday night, and he said he had a box, and I said I had one. He told me whom he was going to take and wanted to know whom I was going to take. 'Henry went out and talked to my chauffeur as my chauffeur cleaned up the car. Henry was telling my chauffeur what a nice man Taylor was to work for. 'Finally Mr. Taylor said 'Well, if you're tired why don't you go home and rest and I will call you up this evening.' I asked Mr. Taylor who lived in the different bungalows in the court, and he told me. We stood outside two or three minutes talking. He had left his door open. He put me in the car, and as he saw the peanut shells, and the pile of books, he laughed and said: 'Here you are with Nietzsche under one arm and Freud under the other and the Police Gazette close by. You certainly are going in for heavy reading this winter.' I said, 'Yes, I wish I could get hold of Joe Miller's Joke Book: that would complete the set.' Then he said 'Good-night, I will call you up in about an hour.' 'I went home, had my dinner at once and was in bed and asleep by 8 o'clock. I didn't have to go to the studio this morning because there was something the matter with the set. 'Edna Purviance called me up this morning and said 'Have you heard the terrible news? William D. Taylor's valet is running up and down the court screaming he is dead. They say he died of heart failure.' Afterward I learned that he had been murdered. 'I hear that Mr. Taylor told Mrs. Berger he wished that he had called off the warrant he had against Sands. I understand that he felt apprehensive of harm from him. There were, I hear, all sorts of mysterious telephone calls and all that. Sands was one of those servile human beings, apparently all devotion to Mr. Taylor.' Miss Normand says that Edward Knoblock had Mr. Taylor's house while Mr. Taylor was in Europe last summer and that Mr. Taylor had Mr. Knoblock's London house. Sands apparently stayed right along in Mr. Taylor's service in Los Angeles, and also assisted Mr. Knoblock. Two or three days before Mr. Taylor was to arrive from London, Sands told Mr. Knoblock that he thought he would take two or three days leave of absence, but would be back soon. He never showed up again. When Mr. Taylor arrived from London, he said he found that Sands had stolen everything, had forged his name to checks and had gone to Hamburger's and bought lingerie. He had a sweetheart here. Miss Normand doesn't know who she was. A few weeks ago Mr. Taylor's house was robbed again. Then from Stockton he kept getting anonymous letters, and he received a pawnbroker's ticket, showing that things had been pawned in the name of a Mrs. Tennant [sic], who is Mr. Taylor's sister-in-law. The way Mr. Taylor knew it was really Sands was because he had always spelled Mrs. Tennent's name wrong, and the wrong spelling was on the ticket. 'Mr. Taylor knew that Sands wasn't out of California by this fact,' said Miss Normand. Mrs. Marjorie Burger [sic] said that Mr. Taylor had told her often that he had been getting mysterious phone calls. He talked so funny, saying that he had wished sometimes that he had dropped prosecution. Mrs. Burger said: 'Why don't you get somebody to watch?' But he said, 'Oh, no.' As for Mabel Normand's reported engagement to Mr. Taylor: she said, 'We have always been great friends. We love to talk over books and that sort of thing. He's the sort of man who can come to the house, sit and read while I play the piano, and talk informally over our work and over our books.' Mabel Normand admitted that Mr. Taylor had asked her to marry him, but that phase of the friendship had been over for some time. They were just good pals, she said. Miss Normand and Mr. Taylor were seen out together a great deal at one time; but of late they have hardly seen each other at all, she said.
1922-02-03	The first theory of the murder of William D. Taylor, motion-picture director, evolved by the detectives assigned to the case, was as follows: Mr. Taylor, just finishing his dinner, was visited by Mabel Normand. They discussed a scenario and several other matters relating to motion pictures. Some time shortly after 7 p.m. Henry Peavey, negro houseman employed by Taylor, left the apartments for the night, leaving Mr. Taylor and Miss Normand. About 7:45 p.m., Miss Normand left the apartment, according to her statement. She was accompanied to her automobile at the curbing by Mr. Taylor. Her negro [sic] chauffeur was waiting for her and drove her home, which she reached about 8 o'clock. It was during this absence from the house by Mr. Taylor that his slayer entered the apartment through the door that had been left open, the theory goes. When Mr. Taylor entered the door on his return he was immediately attacked, being shot from the back, probably as he closed the door. The assailant left immediately. The shot was heard about 7:45 p.m., according to the account given by Mrs. Douglas MacLean, wife of Douglas MacLean, motion-picture actor. Her maid also heard the report. Mrs. MacLean went to the door of her apartment and saw a man leaving by the front door of Mr. Taylor's home. He closed the door and looked around back of him. Then he walked between the Taylor house and the one adjacent on the west [sic], going north by the side entrance to Maryland street. The description of this man was given to the officer
1922-02-03	Henry Peavey had been employed about six months by Mr. Taylor as houseman and valet. He never slept in the house, leaving after the dinner, if his master ate at home and returning the next morning. 'I had turned back the covers on Mr. Taylor's bed, put some ice water on the table and finished the supper things,' Peavey related. 'The income tax lady called on the telephone, and then Miss Normand arrived in her automobile. They sat in rocking chairs and talked about some book. Mr. Taylor was always reading books. He sometimes told me he had read until 2 or 3 o'clock in the morning. Once when he was making a picture he showed me a pile of books, and said, 'I've got to read all these.' 'Well, I motioned to Mr. Taylor and he said, 'You may go now, Henry.' That was about 7:30 o'clock. On the way to work in the morning I stopped at a drug store and got a bottle of milk of magnesia. I often got that for Mr. Taylor. I'd just buy it with my own money and every once in a while tell him how much I had spent. He was a good man. He never asked me what I had spent money for; just how much I had spent to keep him comfortable. As soon as I opened the door I saw his feet. I said, 'Mr. Taylor. Mr. Taylor.' Then I peeped in and saw his face, and I knew something had happened. I started to yell and all the people in the court came out. I ran to the landlord. No, sir, I didn't go into the house. No, sir. 'Mr. Taylor had few friends call. I can only remember his having people for dinner two or three times since I have been with him. At night he would stay home and read. He went out little and drank very little. He was a very good man.'
1922-02-03	The discovery of the murder of William Desmond Taylor was made about 7:30 a.m. yesterday when Henry Peavey, colored house man employed by Taylor, came to work. Peavey says he opened the front door and was first attracted by the body lying on the floor of the living-room, when he saw Mr. Taylor's feet. The body was feet toward the door and over the legs was a chair that apparently had been overturned. Peavey declares he called to his employer and then decided he was dead. 'I ran from the house, ' Peavey said, 'and the folks around here say I made a commotion. The neighbors came running and later they took the body away.' Peavey last saw Mr. Taylor alive Wednesday night about 7:30 o'clock, he said. He had prepared dinner for him and just as he was serving dessert, Mabel Normand, well-known film actress and said by friends to have been his fiancee, came to see Mr. Taylor. This visit began about 7 o'clock, Peavey stated. When he left the home at 7:30 p.m., Miss Normand was still there. A physician was called and at first it was believed the death was of natural causes, probably brought about by a hemorrhage. It was not until a considerable time after the remains were taken to the Ivy Overholtzer undertaking establishment that discovery was made that Mr. Taylor had been shot. The wound was in the back, entering at the left side in a line under the heart. A steel jacketed bullet apparently had been used and the wound had practically closed up thus making detection at first difficult. Peavey said he had been in the employ of Mr. Taylor for about six months. Mr. Taylor had lived in the apartments at the Alvarado courts about two years. The scene left in the magnificently appointed apartment occupied by Mr. Taylor showed little signs of a struggle. The overturned chair was the only indication of a struggle or of the haste of the assailant to escape. The door, which has a night latch, was locked from the outside, but the latch was set so that no key was necessary to accomplish this. A writing desk was situated near the door, against the front wall of the room. On this desk were many papers indicating that Mr. Taylor had been preparing his income tax return for this year and adjusting other business. Some scenarios also were scattered about. On top of the desk was a picture of Mabel Normand. In a place of honor on the top of the upright piano was a photograph of Miss Normand. Three, in all, were conspicuously displayed. Photographs of many persons known throughout the world as film stars also were displayed in the rooms of the apartment. About the border of the living room and dining-room Mr. Taylor had placed a solid border of autographed and framed photographs. Among them were pictures of Mary Pickford, whom he had directed in three pictures before enlisting in the World War. On this picture was written, 'To my nice director, William Taylor, the most patient man that I know, with sincere friendship, Mary Pickford.' In a prominent place was Mary Miles Minter's photograph. This bore the following expression of admiration: 'For William Desmond Taylor, Artist, gentleman, man! Sincere good wishes, Mary Miles Minter, 1920.' Soon after the news of the murder had spread, Mary Miles Minter and her mother rushed to the house to see if they could be of any aid. Miss Minter declared that Mabel Normand had been engaged for about six months to Mr. Taylor. The grief of Miss Minter was shown by the tears which she shed while viewing the scene where her friend had been shot. Later in the morning Frank O'Connor, formerly an assistant director under Mr. Taylor and for many years a close friend, visited the apartments. He sounded high praise for Mr. Taylor. Charles Eyton, general manager of the Lasky studio, was present when the undertaker removed the valuables from the person of Mr. Taylor. L. P. Waterman, deputy public administrator, was called and assumed charge of the property. Detective Sergeants Zeigler and Wallis, assigned to the case when the first report of the death was made to the police, interviewed Miss Normand and obtained a statement from her, they reported, that she had left the apartment some time around 8 o'clock. She was not sure of the time, but placed it at approximately 7:45 p.m. In the court where Mr. Taylor lived there are sixteen apartments. It is composed of eight two-story white stucco buildings. E. C. Jessurun, proprietor of the court, responded to the alarm raised by the negro houseman.
1922-02-03	VALET TELLS OF FINDING BODY There were tears on the cheek of Henry Peavey, colored, who for six months had been employed as William Desmond Taylor's valet, as he told the story yesterday of how he discovered the murdered man's body upon entering the apartment yesterday morning. The night before, when Peavey left to go to his own home, Taylor called a cheery, 'Good night, Henry.' 'I can hear his voice yet,' said this humble mourner. 'It was the kind of strong, friendly voice that made a man feel good.' And then he burst out, 'I'd be willing to go to jail for the rest of my life if I could get the man that did it.' The valet was at his last task for the master; he was wiping up the blood from the floor, but his sobs shook him at times so that he could not proceed. 'I've worked for a lot of men,' he went on, 'but Mr. Taylor was the most wonderful of all of them. I came here this morning intending to fix his bath and get his breakfast, which I always does. And before the bath I'd bring him a dose of medicine. It was always just the same--for breakfast two soft- boiled eggs, toast and a glass of orange juice. 'And having it in my mind to make everything just as nice as I could, knowing he would be pleased and say a kind word, I opened the door. 'AND THEN I FOUND HIM STRETCHED OUT ON THE FLOOR, WHICH WAS ALL BLOODY AND HIS FEET TOWARD THE DOOR. 'And then I backed to the door, pretty near overcome with horror, and yelled for the landlord. The way I figure it is that somebody slipped in last night when Mr. Taylor took Miss Normand to the car and shot him from hiding. But how could any one kill such a man as he was?' Peavey lives at 127 1/2 East Third street. His habit was to reach the Taylor apartment before breakfast and leave after dinner.
1922-02-03	MOVIE DIRECTOR FOUND MURDERED IN LOS ANGELES William Desmond Taylor of The Famous Players is Shot Dead in His Home. JEALOUSY MAY BE MOTIVE Police Working on That Theory, as No Attempt Was Made to Take Money or Valuables. HEAR SHOT, HOUR IN DOUBT Mabel Normand Tells of Leaving him Alive at 9 o'Clock After Conference on New Production. Spectal to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Feb, 2.- Los Angeles was shocked by another murder mystery today when the body of William Desmond Taylor, chief director of the Famous Players-Lasky studios, was found in his home with a bullet shot through his heart. Henry PeaVey a negro serwant, when he arrived this morning at the home where Taylor lived alone, found the body lying beside a desk, where Taylor had been going over a number of canceled checks he had received yesterday from the bank. Following a preliminary inquiry the police questioned Mabel Normand, the film actress. She and others were at Taylor's home at about 8:30 o'clock last night. Miss Normand said that she visited Taylor's bungalow early in the evening to discuss a new production, and that he escorted her to her automobile at the curb shortly before 9 o'clock. Taylor was to telephone to her later in the evening, Miss Normand said, but did not do so. It has been rumored for some months that Miss Normand was engaged to marry Taylor, but the rumors have never been confirmed. Conflicting Stories on Shot. Conflicting stories were told to the police as to the time of the shooting. According to Douglas McLean, who lives near by, he heard the shot at 9 o'clock. Another report was that the shooting occurred about 2 o'clock in the morning. Miss Edna Purviance, who lives in a house adjoining the Taylor bungalow, returned home about midnight last night and at that time, she said, saw a light burning in Taylor 's apartment, but thought nothing of it. Miss Purviance and Miss Normand were talking over the telephone this morning when Taylor's colored servant found the body and shouted "Murder! Murder!" McLean and his wife, who live near the Taylor home, stated that they heard a shot fired shortly after 9 o'clock. They described a strange man whom they saw in the street. The neighbors who heard the report believed it the backfire of an automobile, and they observed nothing in Bungalow Court, in which the Taylor residence is situated, that would lead them to believe there had been an unusual occurrence. The slayer evidently entered the house and shot Taylor as he was working on his check book. The moving picture director dropped to the floor and death was caused by an internal hemorrhage. Taylor's revolver was found in a drawer of the dresser in his bedroom on the second floor. It had not been discharged and none of his personal-effects had been disturbed. His jewelry, which was valued at several thousand dollars, was found in one of the dresser drawers by detectives. Tracing the movements of the suspected slayer, investigators last night located three witnesses who saw the man before and after the tragedy. Just after the report of the revolver was heard, Mrs. MacLean saw a man leaving the Taylor apartments. He was described as being about five feet nine or ten inches tall, medium built, roughly but not shabbily dressed in dark clothes and a plaid cap. Shortly before 6 o'clock a man answering this description stopped at the Hartley service station, corner of Sixth and Alvarado Strests, and inquired where W D. Taylor resided. Floyd Hartley, 331 South Bonnie Brae Avenue, and L. A. Grant, in charge of the station, were in the place at the time. Women acquaintances of the director will be questioned. The theory the police are working on is that a jealous woman either shot Taylor or had him shot. That a woman actually did the slaying is the more generally accepted theory. Taylor Accused Secretary. The police records show that when Taylor went to England a year ago on a business and pleasure trip he left his secretary, Edward F. Sands, in charge of his personal affairs. and that when  he returned he reported to Detective Sergeants Herman Cline and E. R. Cato, that Sands had robbed him of money, jewelry, clothing and a valuable automobile. A felony warrant was issued for Sands and the police say he was never found. A second robbery at the Taylor residence was attributed to Sands by the police. Robbery was evidently not the motive of the crime. A purse containing $78 was found lying in the desk beside the body and the slayer had made no efforts to take any articles from the house. When the body was found the neighbors called the Central Police station, and policemen who visited the scene turned in a report that Taylor had died as the result of hemorrhage, lt was not until Deputy Coroner William McDonald made a close inspection of the body that the bullet wound was discovered. The bullet had struck just below the neck on the left side and ranged downward through the heart. From the position of the wound, the detectives believe that Taylor was shot from behind. Among the mute evidences of what had taken place in the home before Taylor was shot is an expensive silver and cut glass drinking service. On it was a decanter, a shaker used in mixing drinks and two large glasses. In the glasses was some orange pulp, apparently left from an orange and gin concoction. A tray was littered with cigarette stubs. This service was found on the dining room table. The body was found in an adjoining room. Statement by Miss Normand. LOS ANGELES,, Cal., Feb. 2. "When I went to Mr. Taylor's home Wednesday evening, it was in response to a telephone call he had made to mine," Miss Normand said tonight. "I had my chaufffur drive me to Mr. Taylor 's home. I bought peanuts and some magazines and newspapers and ate the peanuts on the way. When I got out of my automobile I told any chauffeur to clean the car. Then I went up the steps. I heard Mr. Taylor talking to somebody over the phone, underreath the stairs, and I hesitated about going in until he had finished. Then I entered. He had been talking to a woman who had charge of the income tax business for many of the picture folk, including myself. He came in and said: 'Gee, I am glad to see you.' 'It was about five minutes after seven when I arrived at his house. We talked about books. I am studying French, and as he spoke French fluently, he was of great assistance to me. "I looked around the drawing room and told him I thought he had changed his house furnishilgs. He said: 'You haven 't been here for so long you forget.' I hadn't been to his house before for two months. He said: 'The phonograph is the only thing new.' "His servant, Henry, came in, and I said to Mr. Taylor: 'Have you had your dinner?' He said: 'Yes: have you had yours?' I said,  'No, but I'm tired and am going home now. I have a studio call for 7 o'clock tomorrow morning.' "He went with me to my car. He expressed surprise at some of the magazines in my car, and some were light, I suppose, and he gave me one of Freud 's books to read. He said he would phone me later in the evening to see how I liked it, but he did not. That was the last I ever heard his voice. When Edna Purviance told me this morning he was dead. I felt sure it was all some horrible mistake. I had known him for six or seven years. He was uniformly kind to every one." News of the death of Taylor stirred the motion picture colony here, and a group of directors and others prominent in the industry met tonight to consider offering a reward for the arrest and conviction of his slayer. Some of the efforts of the police tonight were directed to a search for the person who some time before Taylor's death wrote him a note enclosing pawn tickets for jewelry stolen from his home. The note apparently was written in Sacramento, Cal., Dec. 27, 1921. It read: "So sorry to inconvenience you, even temporarily. Also observe the lesson of the forced sale of assets. "A merry Christmas and a happy and prosperous New Year. (Signed) "ALIAS JIMMIE V." Mrs. Marjorie Berger, said to be an income tax expert, told the police, they stated, that Taylor had told her he had been receiving "mysterious" telephone calls. "Why don't you get somebody to watch?" Mrs. Berger said she asked him. that the Oh, no," she said Taylor replied, but did not explain his aversion to the procedure she had suggested. The theory of the police that a man lurked around the apartment until an opportunity presented itself for him to kill Tayier was said tonight to be reinforced by the discovery of six cigarette stubs in the alley adjoining the apartment. On a writing desk near the door of Taylor 's room were papers which indicated that Taylor had been preparing his income tax returns. On top of the desk was a picture of Miss Normand, and two others of the same actress were found in a conspicuous place in the apartment. Photographs of Mary Pickford and Mary Miles Minter also were in the apartment. Taylor had directed both of them. Soon after the death of Taylor became generally known, Miss Minter and her mother hurried to the apartment to learn if they could be of any assistance. Miss Minter was crying when she arrived, it was reported. Well known as Director. William D. Taylor was one of the best known motion-picture directors in this country. For several years he had been on the Hollywood staff of the Famous Players-Lasky Corporation. and was responsible for a number of that company's productions. His most favorably received work, perhaps, was his screen version of "Huckleberry Finn," which was first shown in New York at the Rivoli Theatre in February, 1920. He also directed Mary Pickford, when she was an Artcraft star, in. "Johanna Enlists" and "Captain Kidd Jr." Among the later pictures directed by him were several in which Mary Miles Minter was the principal player including "Judy of Rogues Harbor," "Nurse Marjorie" and "Jenny Be Good, "and two in which Ethel Clayton was the star, "Wealth" and "Beyond." He also directed "Sacred and Profane Love," with Elsie Ferguson in the leading role: "The Witching Hour," with Elliott Dexter at the head of the cast" "The Soul of Youth," featuring Lewis Sargent, and "The Furnace."
1922-02-03	The seven detectives who are most actively engaged in hunting the murderer told the International News Service it is one of the most baffling cases in the annals of the local police department. It was stated that a complete probe will be made of Taylor's past life in an effort to get behind the veil of mystery surrounding the case and bring the slayer to justice. 'Wherever the trail leads, there will be detectives to follow,' said one police official. 'There will be no whitewashing of any person or any group of persons.' One of the foremost moving picture actresses was scheduled to be questioned late today regarding her asserted love for Taylor. While no suspicion rests on the woman, the police say, she may be able to throw a direct ray of light on some asserted love tangle in which Taylor may have been a principal. Among the various phases of the investigation was a report that Taylor had attended several so-called 'snow' parties, at which narcotics were served from tea wagons, for the purpose of obtaining local color for some of his pictures. The slaying, one detective pointed out, may have been an aftermath of such a party. Weird narratives of a mystic love cult also entered into the investigation when reports to the police linked Taylor's name with the strange life of the cult leaders. The weird love which was said to have existed as a part of the cult may have inspired one of the members to have caused Taylor's death, according to another detective who spent considerable time in delving into the mysticisms and entanglements of the asserted coterie... One of Taylor's closest friends, and a former business associate, told the International News Service this afternoon that he has arrived at the conclusion the director was killed at the instigation of a woman. 'I have been in touch with the police for 24 hours,' said this man, 'and I know the theories on which they have been working. They have now arrived at the belief he was murdered in a vengeance plot. 'I know Taylor was very friendly with one woman screen star. He gave her a farewell party last summer before he went to Europe. He took her to the Writers' Cramp, a notable entertainment recently given for the celebrities of 'movie' colony. 'The director and I had many conversations of a personal nature. But he was more or less of a man of mystery. I do not know that he had been friendly in recent months with any woman other than the screen actress, but it seems likely to me that a man of his engaging personality and magnetic charm should have attracted a number of women. 'Since I am positive that he had no business enemies, I am inclined to believe a woman's hand was at the bottom of it all and that the man who fired the shot was paid to do it.'
1922-02-03	In the numerous romances of William Desmond Taylor with the beautiful women in Hollywood's movie colony, the police are seeking a clew to lead them to his assassin. Names famous in movieland are being linked with the story of the tragedy. The mystery of the slaying and the stories of gallantries in which Taylor is the hero, overshadow any of those pictured in the film studios where he was one of the moving spirits. Three women movie stars are known to have visited his luxurious bungalow at 404B South Alvarado street, where his body was found this morning, within a few hours of the time he must have died. The slayer now is believed to have been hiding near the bungalow while Mabel Normand was with Taylor, a period of perhaps two hours. When Taylor left the house to escort Miss Normand, the slayer is believed to have slipped into the house, to lurk there until the chance came to end the life of the man he hated. Another actress of national repute went to the house about two hours later, the detectives have been told. What was the purpose or the result of her visit has not been disclosed as yet. At the time of her visit, according to the opinion of physicians, Taylor had been dead for nearly two hours. The police seek an answer to the double-barreled question: 'What did this beautiful actress go to see, and what did she see?' An hour later Edna Purviance, a next door neighbor and long time friend of Taylor, reached her home. She saw a light in Taylor's study and rang his bell. There was no answer. She told the police she decided he was out or did not wish visitors, so she went to her own home. With these facts for a background and stories of Taylor's love affairs, gleaned in the studios, the police have subordinated but not abandoned the possibility that the hand of a woman scorned by Taylor fired the shot. They are concentrating on tracking down the shadowy unknown who lurked around the bungalow and, as they believe, dodged in, killed Taylor and escaped. One witness says she saw a man dressed in dark clothing and wearing a checkered cap, standing at the partly opened door of Taylor's bungalow and peering in. The housemaid of another neighbor saw a man running through an alley back of the house shortly after the report of a revolver was heard. This noise was ascribed at the time to an automobile blowout, but detectives are not satisfied it was the shot that ended Taylor's life. The unidentified man is described as roughly dressed. This may be a ruse to throw the police off the track of the slayer. Where men and women make their fortunes by impersonation, in the studios it is not improbable that they might resort to the expedient of a disguise to carry out a plan of vengeance. Whether the slayer, if it was a man who killed Taylor, acted in jealous rage because of attentions to a woman with whom he was infatuated, or did the bidding of a furious woman who later crept to the bungalow and peered, white- faced, upon the scene of the tragedy before slipping away again, are elements of the problem that face the investigators. These are all details they hope to bring to light in following through the maze through which Taylor passed in his endless search for beauty and which led him finally to his death. He was 50 years old. Beauty was the dominating impulse of his career. He sought for the beautiful in his pictures. It was this which brought him fame as the chief director of the Famous Players-Lasky corporation. It was his selection that brought the most beautiful of actresses into the pictures he directed. ...Taylor was a high liver and had many women friends. He was, according to general opinion in the motion picture colony, engaged for a time to Mary Miles Minter and later to Mabel Normand. A Mrs. Paul A. Crawford Ivers, continuity editor for Lasky's, is also reported to have been a friend of his. Taylor had been married twice, having been divorced both times. He was pre-eminently a man who kept the greater part of his life a mystery to those about him. Few men knew very much about his business interests which in a purely investment way and aside from his large earnings as chief motion picture director for the largest producing concern in the world, were extensive. Similarly he was a man of decided attraction for woman, but one who, in affairs of the heart as in everything else, played without making any noise...
1922-02-03	Because of the variance in the descriptions of the man Mrs. MacLean saw and Sands, the police are inclined to drop any suspicion of this former valet, and they likewise place little credence in the robbery theory, as no material facts seem to support such a possibility. But some woman, they believe, is at the apex of the triangle, the other two points of which are a man with a revolver and William Desmond Taylor, noted Lasky director (deceased)...
1922-02-03	Film Director Is Slain at Desk; Murderer Stands Behind Chair  W. D. Taylor Found Mysteriously Murdered in Los Angeles Was Scanning Canceled Checks When Shot Mabel Normand, Last Visitor, Says He Feared Former Servant. Thrice "Friendly Burglar's" Victim.   Los Angeles. Feb. 2 (By the Associated Press). Mystery tonight surrounded the murder of William Desmond Taylor, internationally known  motion picture director, who was found dead at his desk in his home here this morning. The bullet which ended his life had been fired into his neck from behind and had ranged downward, piercing his heart. On the desk beside his head lay a mass of canceled checks which he apparently had been inspecting when the fatal shot was fired. Robbery, according to the police,  could not have been the motive, for nothing was missing from the apartment although a considerable sum of money and jewelry was found undisturbed near the body.    Told Actress of Fear. One of the last persons to see Tayfor, who was director in chief at the Famous Players-Lasky studios, alive was Mabel Normand, fil comedienne. She called upon him early yesterday evening. She told detectives today that she stopped at the apartment to return a book Taylor had loaned her and talked with him for about half an hour. She said Taylor expressed fear of a former servant who, he alleged, robbed him. She also said Taylor had told her he might call at her home several blocks away, later in the evening and that he might telephone." Miss Normand left the apartment about 9 oclock, she said, this statement being corroborated by her chauffeur. Both said Tayior walked to the car with her. She said she had not seen or heard from him again. Taylor 's only servant, who left the apartments at the same time as the actress last night, found the body on returning this morning. The servant said both front and dear doors of the apartment were looked when he arrived. The front door opens upon a court, even with the street level, from which anyone could have entered the apartment if      it were unlocked. with little chance of being observed. The door has a spring lock.   Seeking Former Servant. Most of the early efforts of the investigators today were directed to an attempt to locate the former servant of Taylor 's, against whom the motion picture man had lodged a complaint  with the police some time ago. Tayfor declared the man had stolen some I of his belongings and forged his name to a check. and that he believed a burglary of his apartment some time alter was committed by the same person. The wife of a motion picture actor living in the same group of apartments said that she saw a man standing at the door of Taylor 's place about 8 oclock last night. She said is he appeared to have the door partly open and to be looking in. She described the man as short and stockily built and wearing a checkered cap. This description does not tally with  that of the former servant.   Left Miss Normand There. Harry Peavey. Taylors negro servant, told the police that he left the apartment, according to his custom, at about 7:30 o'clock last night. He  said that Miss Normand was still there at that time, having arrived while he was serving dinner about half an hour earlier. The police made it plain that they had no suspicion as far as Miss Normand was concerned, but questioned her merely in looking I for possible clews in all available quarters. When Taylor 's body was first found, it was thought that he had died from a hemorrage, so slight was the wound in his neck left by the passage of the is bullet. After this wound was discovered. search was begun for the pistol which fired the shot. but it could not be found. Nothing in the apartment was disturbed, the slayer, apparently, having fined without leaveing a single clew behind. Miss Normand was said by the police to have received her first word of the tragedy through Edaa Purviance. also a motion picture actress, whose apartment is near that occupied by Taylor. Miss Purviance called Miss Normand on the telephone as soon as she heard the details of the shooting. The police were said to be considering the possibility that Taylor was shot by the discarded suitor of some, woman with whom he had been friendly; by a former servant he had, caused to be arrested for an alleged crime and who was said to have threatened his life; by a burglar who  was surprised when Taylor returned is from escorting Miss Normand to her care, or possibly by a woman who, for it some unknown reason, had become enraged at him. Miss Normand stated tonight there "had been no affair of the heart whatever" between her and Taylor. "His friendship for me was that of an older man for a girl who liked the outdoor sports he liked, and who was eager to glean a little enlightenment from the vast storehouse of knowledge he possessed." For several months it had been rumored, but never confirmed, that Miss Normand was engaged to marry Taylor. The detectives expressed the belief is the director was slain by a man, basing their theory on statements made by Mrs. Douglas MacLean, wife of a film actor, and her maid, that they had seen a stranger about the Taylor apartments both before and after is neighbors heard a shot.   Taylors career Adventurous. Taylor had an adventurous career. which included three trips to Alaska. during one of which he wrested was a small fortune from the Klondike, He  served during the world war with they British army having been born in Ireland, and within a few months rose from the ranks of a private to a captain. He was trained for the engineering profession, but turned to the stage when 18 years old. He left the stage to join the first rush to Alaska. Taylor had been director -in-chief of I the Famous Players-Lasky plant in Hollywood.   Tells of "Friendly" Robber New York. Feb. 2. William Desmond Taylor, motion picture director for the Famous Payers-Lasky Corporation, whose body, with a bullet through the heart, was found in his home in Loss Angeles today. twice in eight months had been the victim of a "friendly" robber, who promised to return again, according to E. W. Wingart, a friend, who has just returned from California. While Mr. Taylor was in England last May valuable jewelry, clothes and $800 in cash were taken from his apartment, Mr. Wingart said. Last Christmas week the apartment was entered again, the burglar leaving pawn checks for the jewelry and clothes previously stolen, and making off with more clothes and jewelry He left a note addressed to Taylor, which said: "Merry Christmas, shall return again. 
1922-02-04	[Charles] Maigne left the central police station after being in consultation for more than an hour with Captain of Detectives J. L. Moffatt. He declined to state what had been discussed, but declared he believed Sands, the butler, could give valuable information in the case. Maigne is a close friend of Mabel Normand, and was with her yesterday when she received newspaper men who sought her story of her call at Taylor's home Wednesday evening.
1922-02-04	What the police regard as an important clue was discovered this afternoon. Detectives are investigating 'a dope party' given at Hollywood recently, at which cocaine and other drugs were served instead of drinks. Two women, both film actresses, stated that they quarreled over Taylor and fought, ripping the clothes from each other's bodies. Taylor was not present at the party. The police theory is that Taylor's murder was contrived by one of the women, to whose advances he had refused to respond...
1922-02-04	Woman Tells Of Seeing Man Acting Suspiciously An excellent example of habitual observation was brought to light yesterday when Mrs. Ida Garrow, a modiste living at the Rose of Sharon Apartments, told Examiner investigators that on Wednesday night as she was walking down Ocean View avenue, at the intersection of Alvarado street, she noticed a man acting in a very peculiar manner. 'It was about EIGHT THIRTY, OR POSSIBLY TWENTY MINUTES OF NINE,' said Mrs. Garrow yesterday, 'Wednesday evening I was hurrying to my club which meets at the corner of Grand View and Ocean View avenue. I was late for a class that was studying Hebrew which I did not want to miss, but as I have trained my observational faculties in the study of astrology. It is without voluntary effort that I perceive whatever comes within the range of vision. 'As I came to Alvarado street, I saw a tall, slender, smooth shaven policeman, whose face I would instinctively recognize if I were to see him again, walking toward Ocean View avenue. Walking with him was another man, to whom I did not pay particular attention, because my curiosity was aroused by the peculiar actions of a man who was coming toward me a few feet in front of the policeman. Although the policeman was not paying the slightest attention to this man, the man was glancing back apprehensively over his shoulder, and at times looking in away from the street which would be directly in toward the court where the body of Mr. Taylor was found. 'As the policeman got closer to this man, the man crossed the street, and I noticed as he crossed that he was short and stout and wore a long overcoat, but there was the shadow of a building falling at such an angle that I could not determine whether he wore a cap or a hat.' Who was the policeman walking down Alvarado street at 8:30 or 8:45, and what did he see? This slight clue given by a careful observer may lead to very important developments in the mysterious murder whose points are now baffling the keenest detectives of the city.
1922-02-04	Mary Miles Minter talked yesterday at length on the subject uppermost in the minds of most members of Hollywood's film colony--the mysterious murder of William Desmond Taylor, noted film director. Seated in the little home in Hollywood in the presence of her mother, Mrs. Selby (sic) and her grandmother, Mrs. Mary Miles, the youthful screen star discussed intimately the details of her acquaintance with the man whose assassination shook the city Thursday morning. AND SHE DENIES, TOO, THAT SHE EVER WAS ENGAGED TO HIM OR THAT HE EVER HAD ASKED HER TO MARRY HIM. 'He looked on me as a mere child,' Miss Minter said. 'I could speak for hours, extolling his virtues and those qualities which he had that endeared him to his many friends--and then not be able to do him justice.' 'Married?' She repeated the interviewer's question. 'Married? I'm sure he wasn't, or he surely would have told me. We were such good friends.' Miss Minter had not seen Taylor for several months, she said, except perhaps on one or two occasions when they had passed each other on the street in their motors. 'After we came back from Europe, we just couldn't drag him away from his work,' she continued. 'He seemed to be wrapped up in it.' Discussing the report that Miss Normand and Taylor had been engaged at the time of his death, Miss Minter said she knew nothing of it. 'I hadn't heard of a romance between them,' she said, 'and I don't think the report is true. If it is true that he asked her to be his wife--well, I'm glad that he and Mabel were such good friends. She is a lovely girl. She is frank and earnest, and if she wishes to do a thing she does it. That's what I admire in her most.' She showed interest in the search which is being made for Edward F. Sands, Taylor's former valet. 'But it would be unfair to accuse him of the crime, without knowing,' she concluded. 'It is possible that some crank or demented person committed the crime. No one seems to know, except the person who did it. And whoever it was doesn't seem particularly eager to tell.'
1922-02-04	...Of almost equal interest in the development of the investigation was the statement of Mrs. Earl Tiffany, wife of Taylor's chauffeur, that she saw Edward F. Sands, ex-secretary-valet of the murdered director, now sought as a witness, at Sixth and Figueroa Streets Tuesday afternoon last [the day prior to the murder] at 1:20 o'clock. ...The search for Sands continued with unabated intensity. He is said to have returned to Los Angeles Tuesday and uttered this threat: 'I am here to get Bill Taylor.' His intimate knowledge of Taylor's double identity was revealed in startling fashion late yesterday when in Fresno it was learned that Sands had there pawned jewelry stolen from Taylor and that he had given the name 'William Deane-Tanner,' asserted to be Taylor's true name. ...The police are assured beyond peradventure that the man who pawned the jewelry in Fresno, using the true name of the owner in a spirit of malicious triumph, was Edward Sands. There is something in this very circumstance which to the officers is itself a flood of light coming out of the darkness. The stealing and forgery indulged in by Sands did not convey the spirit of this piece of treachery; they might have been only for gain. But now that the Fresno episode is brought up from the obscurity of a dark little hole-in- the-wall pawn shop to be made plain in all its details, a new element appears. This new element is the pronounced unfriendliness of Sands, which takes on the aspect of a sinister and silent threat. The malice is further revealed in what seems to have been a persistent campaign of Sands to annoy the director. From Fresno he sent him a pawn ticket, a ticket issued on valuables stolen from Taylor on which money had been raised. Still another pawn ticket came through the mail from Sacramento. With this was the letter signed 'Alias Jimmy V.' These were derisive thrusts at Taylor; from some motive which has not been revealed the thief and forger was trying to torture the victim of his crimes. ...Something of the description of this man was learned yesterday by The Examiner from A. A. Tomlinson, an accountant of 1022 West Fortieth Place. 'The true name of this man,' said Tomlinson, 'is not Sands but Strathmore. I recognized him by his picture in this morning's Examiner. 'He enlisted in the army during the war as Edward Fitz Strathmore and was assigned to Columbus Barracks, Ohio. I was then head of the finance office and upon learning that Strathmore had been a chief petty officer in the navy I asked that he be transferred to my department, which was done. 'On October 4, 1919, Strathmore forged my name to a Government check for $475 and tried to buy a motorcycle with it. He failed to carry out this scheme, but escaped. At the same time he forged the commanding officer's name to a discharge. He has been wanted for desertion. 'On July 4, 1920, I met him on Alvarado Street. He told me that he was expecting to get work with the street car company. I notified the police, but he disappeared. 'During his service with me at Columbus Barracks, Strathmore often boasted of the crimes he had committed. I did not believe him then, but thought it was a case of a young fellow drawing on his imagination. 'Once I asked him what he would do if he were in a dangerous situation. He said he would shoot his way out.'
1922-02-04	Additional details of the dual life led by William Desmond Taylor, motion picture director, murdered Wednesday night, were revealed last night when The Examiner located his sister-in-law, Mrs. Ada P. Deane-Tanner, in Monrovia. It was an extraordinary recitation which Mrs. Tanner related regarding the dead man. His real name, she said, was William Desmond [sic] Deane-Tanner and it was his brother, Dennis, that she married. Only twice in her life had she ever seen this mysterious figure, known to Hollywood and to the picture world as William D. Taylor. Once was on the birth of her daughter, 13 years ago, in New York city, when he came to see his brother's child and wife on her hospital bed. The other time was in Los Angeles, six years ago, when she went to the studio to find him. According to this woman's story, as she told it in her little Monrovia home last night, William D. Taylor, the director, during the past six years and up to his death absolutely refused to admit he was her brother-in-law, and yet, when her health broke down a [sic] years ago he began sending her a monthly allowance, which she was receiving regularly up to the time of his death. He wouldn't admit that he was her relative but he supported her, though never seeing her. A more astounding part of the story is Mrs. Deane-Tanner's recital of the manner in which her own husband in 1912 disappeared from sight never to be seen again. 'I don't know whether he is alive today or not,' she said. 'William D. Taylor's brother left me for the office one day and never was heard from or seen since. 'I asked Mr. Taylor, as he called himself here, about my husband's disappearance in letters to him, but he said that he had not (in 1921) seen or heard from my husband for fourteen years. This I know wasn't so, as my husband was by my side when my brother-in-law called on me at the birth of my daughter, twelve years before, in 1921, now thirteen years ago.' Mrs. Deane-Tanner refused to say what her husband's business was, but intimated that he had a considerable income. When he disappeared, she said, she spent a small fortune trying to find him, in detective bills and in other ways, but though she had the earth scoured to the best of her ability in an effort to trace the man, she was never able to get an inkling of what happened to him in those minutes between his leaving their home and the time when he should have--but never did-- arrive at his office... When Mrs. Deane-Tanner six years ago heard from a friend here that her brother-in-law was in Hollywood under an assumed name, she went to the studio to find him. She finally, she said, secured an interview with him, but he persistently refused to admit he was Deane-Tanner, though she was positive he was the same man who stood above her bedside an smiled at her new-born baby. So she left and had nothing more to do with Taylor-Tanner until her health began to fail a year ago. She had a 12-year-old daughter with her and was in need of funds, having spent all she had searching for her husband and educating her daughter. So she again went to Taylor or Tanner, this time writing him and telling him of her predicament. He replied to her, again denying that he had ever been Tanner, but at the same time he sent her a check and ever since has been giving an allowance.
1922-02-04	Mute evidence of the tender affection which existed between Ethel Daisy Taylor, 14-year-old daughter of the slain film director, William Desmond Taylor, and her father, was found by The Examiner yesterday. Inscribed on a page and a half of note paper, written in typical school girl chatter, it bears every evidence of the strong devotion that undoubtedly existed. Postmark Mamaroneck, N. Y., and dated February 6, 1921, the letter reads: 'Dear Father of Mine: 'Excuse the weird paper, but I am having some made and haven't gotten it as yet. I like your paper very much and am always glad when I hear from you. 'I have read your letters over ever and ever so many times until I almost know them by heart. I would have answered sooner, only I have had a siege of infected fingers. Three, one right after the other, and have only just gotten through with them. 'Of course, that made it rather difficult to write or draw, so I stayed home a couple of the days. I had one of the fingers cut four times, but the others only once. 'Mercy goodness, I wish you didn't have to work so long. You'll wear yourself down again, so be careful, won't you, Papa, pettie dear? Will the picture with Miss Compson be interesting? I do wish I might see you soon. I think of you so much it seems as if I saw you much more often than every once in a while. 'I realize how seldom we really see each other and I surely do hope you'll be East again soon, dear. I'd like very much to send you some real nice things for Christmas, but haven't the least idea what you would like, so kindly tell me, please, dear. 'I must stop now. Oh, Father, dear, I do love you so much. 'Ethel.'
1922-02-04	The names of two film actresses were injected last night into the investigation of the William Desmond Taylor murder mystery. One is a star of national reputation. The other is a girl of humbler station in motion picture ranks. While detectives working on the case refused to confirm the above mentioned facts it was learned from other sources that investigation had disclosed a close association between Taylor and these two screen actresses. Of almost equal interest in the development of the investigation was the statement of Mrs. Earl Tiffany, wife of Taylor's chauffeur, that she saw Edward F. Sands, ex-secretary-valet of the murdered director, now sought as a witness, at Sixth and Figueroa Streets Tuesday afternoon last [the day prior to the murder] at 1:20 o'clock. Mr. and Mrs. Tiffany were subjected to a long examination last night, during which she revealed what the investigators [regard] as one of the most important clews yet to come before them. In regard to the screen actresses, the police refused to make any mention of their names or to discuss what part they are alleged to have played in the mystery. Until a late hour last night police detectives questioned Harry Fellows, Taylor's assistant director. They are said to regard Fellows as one of the vital witnesses in the case because of his close contact with Taylor for many months. The questioning last night, they said, was for the purpose of checking over Taylor's movements for three days preceding his murder. The search for Sands continued with unabated intensity. He is said to have returned to Los Angeles Tuesday and uttered this threat: 'I am here to get Bill Taylor.' His intimate knowledge of Taylor's double identity was revealed in startling fashion late yesterday when in Fresno it was learned that Sands had there pawned jewelry stolen from Taylor and that he had given the name 'William Deane-Tanner,' asserted to be Taylor's true name. The jewelry upon which a loan had been made and a ticket issued consisted of a pair of cuff links set with diamonds and onyx shirt studs, also set with diamonds. The man who secured the loan answered the description of Sands. In a bold hand he wrote on the ticket retained by the broker the name of his one-time employer, 'William Deane Tanner.' The meaning of this might have remained impenetrable, something as deep as the shadows as all else that concerns the silent figure whose tragic end left the motion picture world aghast and stunned. But by some means, possibly by reading his mail, it is believed, and learning the details of the allowances sent to his daughter, Sands became possessed of the secret. It may be said, parenthetically, that no member of the picture colony believes the change in name was for any purpose of concealment. Taylor (and that name will be used as most accurate) said not long ago to a friend, 'I have known great sadness in my life.' It is believed that the 'Tanner' was discarded along with the old life which he had described as being so unhappy. The police are assured beyond peradventure that the man who pawned the jewelry in Fresno, using the true name of the owner in a spirit of malicious triumph, was Edward Sands. There is something in this very circumstance which to the officers is itself a flood of light coming out of the darkness. The stealing and forgery indulged in by Sands did not convey the spirit of this piece of treachery; they might have been only for gain. But now that the Fresno episode is brought up from the obscurity of a dark little hole-in- the-wall pawn shop to be made plain in all its details, a new element appears. This new element is the pronounced unfriendliness of Sands, which takes on the aspect of a sinister and silent threat. The malice is further revealed in what seems to have been a persistent campaign of Sands to annoy the director. From Fresno he sent him a pawn ticket, a ticket issued on valuables stolen from Taylor on which money had been raised. Still another pawn ticket came through the mail from Sacramento. With this was the letter signed 'Alias Jimmy V.' These were derisive thrusts at Taylor; from some motive which has not been revealed the thief and forger was trying to torture the victim of his crimes. Chief of Police Frank Truex of Fresno, who found the pawned jewelry, learned that other articles stolen from Taylor and not recovered were pledged in Sacramento. It was disclosed yesterday that Mabel Normand recently made Taylor a present of a black amber cigarette holder valued at $1800. This is said to be one of the finest things of its kind ever made. In return Taylor gave Miss Normand a dresser set costing $1200. ...'We are satisfied that we have everything checked up to 8 o'clock on the night of the murder. 'The man who killed William D. Taylor is the one who was seen leaving his apartment shortly before that time Wednesday night. This is our absolute conclusion. 'We also have a definite clew as to who the man is and his motive. But to reveal either, would be to prevent clear and straightaway police work upon our hypothesis.' This was the statement last night of Captain of Detectives David L. Adams, after receiving reports from his staff of detectives who yesterday were combing through a multitude of rumors for something substantial. Sands, whose true name, The Examiner yesterday learned, is Edward Fitz Strathmore, wanted for desertion from the Army as well as for the robberies committed against Taylor, was seen in Los Angeles Tuesday. Hunted as a fugitive by both Federal and State officers, he nevertheless ran the gauntlet, appearing, it is said, without attempt at concealment either of his person or his plan. It is the latter which particularly interests the police. To a man who has given a detailed report of the conversation Sands is said to have threatened, with a curse, 'I'm here to get Bill Taylor.' Included among the persons who saw Sands on Tuesday are women whose testimony will probably be of the utmost importance if he is apprehended. One of these is said to have seen him Wednesday night near the scene of the crime. Her identity is being kept secret. There are so many fingers pointing at this man that the police have centered their efforts upon finding him. With the little light as to the relations between Taylor and Sands it is admittedly difficult to reconstruct the tragedy upon the basis merely of the discharged man's enmity growing out of Taylor's felony complaint against him. Hence, as a working theory, it is presumed that there may have been a much deeper motive underlying the act. That Taylor was not shot in the back, as at first reported, but in the left side, was yesterday discovered by Detectives Cato and Cahill, who minutely examined the wound. The single bullet entered at a point where the left elbow would rest if the arm were held naturally at the side. It might seem, therefore, that Taylor, hearing a noise in his room, turned from his writing desk where he was going over the stubs of his check book, and was shot on the moment he discovered the intruder. ...There is, however, a great mass of material upon which the police are checking, hoping that from the pile of chaff there may be found the single grain of information which, it is hoped, may germinate into the full disclosure of the dastardly act and all of its ramifications. Theodore Kosloff, the dancer, contributed one of these stories. Some two weeks ago he was with Taylor 'on location,' a place in the country. They were walking together. Suddenly from behind a clump of brush a man arose almost with a spring. Quicker than this surprising stranger, said Kosloff, was Taylor. He leaped around to one side and faced the man. They stood eye to eye for a moment, neither speaking. Then the man turned and walked away. Taylor, vouchsafing no explanation, continued the interrupted conversation. This unaccountable happening came to Mr. Kosloff's mind yesterday when he learned of his friend's violent end. But aside from relating the peculiar circumstances he could add nothing. ...Something of the description of this man was learned yesterday by The Examiner from A. A. Tomlinson, an accountant of 1022 West Fortieth Place. 'The true name of this man,' said Tomlinson, 'is not Sands but Strathmore. I recognized him by his picture in this morning's Examiner. 'He enlisted in the army during the war as Edward Fitz Strathmore and was assigned to Columbus Barracks, Ohio. I was then head of the finance office and upon learning that Strathmore had been a chief petty officer in the navy I asked that he be transferred to my department, which was done. 'On October 4, 1919, Strathmore forged my name to a Government check for $475 and tried to buy a motorcycle with it. He failed to carry out this scheme, but escaped. At the same time he forged the commanding officer's name to a discharge. He has been wanted for desertion. 'On July 4, 1920, I met him on Alvarado Street. He told me that he was expecting to get work with the street car company. I notified the police, but he disappeared. 'During his service with me at Columbus Barracks, Strathmore often boasted of the crimes he had committed. I did not believe him then, but thought it was a case of a young fellow drawing on his imagination. 'Once I asked him what he would do if he were in a dangerous situation. He said he would shoot his way out. 'Strathmore gave me a number of books, all bearing his signature on the inside of the cover. In each case the 'Strathmore' was written over a name which had been erased. In one of them I was able to make out that the erased name was 'Sands.' 'Among the volumes is one bearing, in Strathmore's handwriting, the entry, 'c-o Perry P. Le Berthon, 982 Fifty-second street, Brooklyn, N. Y.' The Examiner wired to Columbus barracks for a description of Strathmore and received the following: 'Dark complexion, ruddy face, height 5 feet 5 3/4 inches, slightly bow- legged.' Strathmore, or Sands, is a constant cigarette smoker. ...Recently, it was learned, Taylor had attended two or three 'hop' parties where all but he had either smoked opium or taken a drug in some form. He was there, it was assumed, to get 'atmosphere' for a picture. The possibility that the beginning of the tragedy had its setting at one of these proscribed affairs is being considered. ...The many friends of Taylor in the motion picture colony found it inconceivable, they said, that he should have been mixed up with a woman, particularly in such a way as to incur some one's mortal hostility.
1922-02-04	Neva Gerber, petite and beautiful film star, who at one time was engaged to marry William D. Taylor, but who broke off the match because she said both believed it unsuitable, said last night: 'I have never known a finer, better man than Mr. Taylor. He was the soul of honor, a man of exceptional culture, education and refinement, but possessing a reserve which very few were permitted to penetrate. 'So far as I know, he did not have an enemy in the world, although he had mentioned casually of fights he had on his various trips to the Klondike. 'He had led a most eventful life, and told me, on one occasion, of being in a village in the far north when it was scourged by smallpox. He went about nursing the inhabitants, including a priest. The epidemic was a severe one, and practically every one was stricken, or had fled to escape this pest. Finally he and the priest, I think it was, were the only two left. The priest had fallen a victim, but Mr. Taylor nursed him back to health. 'Then Mr. Taylor fell victim to the disease, and, after a hard battle, the priest nursed him back to health. 'In spite of this experience, he often said to me that he longed for the far north with its great open stretches, its mighty mountains, and the solitude of its hills and valleys. Often when he was nervous and tired from directing a picture he would tell me that he longed again to be going over the trail in search of gold, and far from the distractions of civilization. 'He told me that he made two fortunes, and spent both of them on his return from Alaska. 'Before the war he frequently received letters from his mother who was then in London, and his daughter, who I believe was then about 11 years old. His mother, I understood, was killed in an air raid on the British capital. 'He always spoke of his daughter as 'the child,' and was planning, about two years ago, to bring her to Los Angeles to live. It is my understanding that his former wife is now living in New York. 'I always assumed he was divorced, for had he not been, I do not believe he would have asked me to marry him. We were engaged for some time, but we finally came to the conclusion we were not suited to one another, so the prospective match was broken off about two years ago. This terrible affair is all the more mysterious because it was a common saying among the studios and in Hollywood generally that Mr. Taylor had not an enemy in the world. 'He may have made an enemy in the past who nursed a grudge through the years which finally resulted in this murder, but he never gave the slightest indication to me of having any foes.'
1922-02-04	An excellent example of habitual observation was brought to light yesterday when Mrs. Ida Garrow, a modiste living at the Rose of Sharon apartments, told Examiner investigators that on Wednesday night as she was walking down Ocean View avenue, at the intersection of Alvarado street, she noticed a man acting in a very peculiar manner. 'It was about eight thirty, or possibly twenty minutes of nine, said Mrs. Garrow yesterday, 'Wednesday evening and I was hurrying to my club which meets at the corner of Grand View and Ocean View avenues. I was late for a class that is studying Hebrew which I did not want to miss, but as I have trained my observational faculties in the study of astrology it is without voluntary effort that I perceive whatever comes within the range of vision. 'As I came to Alvarado street, I saw a tall, slender, smooth shaven policeman, whose face I would instantly recognize if I were to see him again, walking toward Ocean View avenue. Walking with him was another man, to whom I did not pay any particular attention, because my curiosity was aroused by the peculiar actions of a man who was coming toward me a few feet in front of the policeman. Although the policeman was not paying the slightest attention to this man, the man was glancing back apprehensively over his shoulder, and at times looking in, away from the street, which would be directly in toward the court where the body of Mr. Taylor was found. 'As the policeman got closer to this man, the man crossed the street, and I noticed as he crossed that he was short and stout and wore a long overcoat, but there was the shadow of a building falling at such an angle that I could not determine whether he wore a cap or a hat.' Who was the policeman walking down Alvarado street at 8:30 or 8:45, and what did he see? This slight clue given by a careful observer may lead to very important developments in the mysterious murder, whose points are still baffling the keenest detectives of the city.
1922-02-04	Claire Windsor, beautiful motion-picture star, last night added a sensation to the mystery of the slaying of William D. Taylor, the popular picture director. She asserted that she had heard the dead motion picture director declare that 'he would kill Sands, the former valet, if he ever laid his hands on him.' 'Mr. Taylor, Tony Moreno and Betty Francisco were at the Ambassador Hotel at a party on Thursday night one week ago when Maurice, the famous dancer, first gave his exhibition,' said the film actress. 'Mr. Taylor was with me, and of course we talked about the robbery. 'He said: 'If I ever lay my hands on Sands I will kill him.' 'Mr. Taylor seemed very determined because Sands had robbed him of every cent he had at the time. Speaking of her friendship with Taylor, whom she referred to in terms of the greatest respect, Miss Windsor said that she had known him a long time but never very well. 'I always found him a perfect gentleman, always considerate of others and most polished,' she said. 'While I never worked under the direction of Mr. Taylor, I met him a number of times. Mr. Taylor made no secret of his plan to kill his valet, as he told a number of people that he would kill him if he ever got his hands on him.' Pretty Betty Francisco, the little blonde motion picture star, yesterday told of the party she attended at the Ambassador Hotel when Antonio Moreno was her escort and the late picture director was the companion of Claire Windsor. She referred to the slaying of Taylor with horror. 'I did not know him intimately enough to call him a friend, but I would be proud to call a man like him my friend. I was rather an acquaintance, and not fortunate enough to be a friend. 'It has been stated that I was with Mr. Taylor at the Ambassador Hotel. This, however, is not true. I was at the hotel with Mr. and Mrs. Bryant Washburn. Mr. Moreno and Miss Claire Windsor also were at the Ambassador, but I did not see Mr. Taylor. 'I never recall his speaking of any trouble he had with any one, but on one occasion he spoke of a servant of his who was taken ill with tuberculoses. He felt very badly about it. This must have been nearly two years ago. Last night at the home of Claire Windsor, 1042 Third avenue, the mother of the film actress told of the many books Taylor had recommended to her daughter to read.
1922-02-04	While some of the most prominent members of the cinema colony in Los Angeles shuddered in horror as the grim details of the slaying of William D. Taylor, well-known film director, were told from the witness chair at the coroner's inquest today, what was characterized as the most important development since investigation of the slaying began was brought to light. That was the story of the bullet with which the motion-picture director was slain--a bullet that showed by its markings it had been manufactured years ago. As Detective Sergeant Herman Cline told of finding the peculiar shell and its probable significance in the ultimate unraveling of the mystery, listeners in the quiet hall outside the crowded inquest room could hear the subdued sobs of Mabel Normand, friend of the slain man, one of the last persons to see him alive, and herself one of the most noted figures in filmdom. Miss Normand was called as a witness and the inquest was delayed for some minutes until she arrived. Until the time for her appearance on the witness stand she was closeted in a small room adjoining the inquest chamber, where from time to time she gave way to her grief. ...Those who were summoned and who were ready to testify after the jury had been sworn in by the coroner were: Jesse L. Lasky, vice president of the Famous Players-Lasky organization, by whom Taylor was employed as director general. Charles Eyton, general manager of the West Coast Studios of that corporation. Miss Mabel Normand, noted film star, who so far as the police know was the last person to see Taylor alive. Douglas MacLean, another film star, whose home adjoins that of Taylor. Mrs. Douglas MacLean, wife of the star. Detective Sergeants Wallis, Ziegler, Herman Cline, Winn, Murphy, Cato and Cahill. Henry Peavey of 127 1/2 East Third street, negro servant of Taylor, who found the body of the slain man. Harry Fellows, chauffeur [sic] for Taylor. William Davis, chauffeur for Miss Normand. Verne Dumas, wealthy oil man, who was one of the first neighbors to enter the house. E. C. Jesserund [sic], owner of the apartment occupied by Mr. Taylor. ...Charles Eyton, general manager of the Lasky coast organization was called as the first witness. He was questioned by Coroner Nance: Q. Mr. Eyton, have you viewed the remains? A. Yes. Q. And you have identified the body? A. Yes, sir. It is William Desmond Taylor. Q. How old was Taylor at the time of his death and was he married? A. He was 45. Yes he had been married. Q. When did Mr. Taylor die? A. Thursday, or perhaps some time on Wednesday evening. I did not see the body until Thursday morning. Q. Please tell what you know of the situation. A. I was called Thursday morning by Harry Fellows, assistant to Mr. Taylor, who said that he had died suddenly as the result of a hemorrhage. I immediately went to the house where I found a deputy coroner and several other persons. The deputy declared death was due to an internal hemorrhage, and after reaching his hand under Taylor's vest, and finding a little blood, he stated that he believed it had run down from his mouth. I was not satisfied, however, that such was the case, and I called Harry Fellows. We then turned Mr. Taylor over onto his face, and pulling up his shirt, discovered the bullet wound. Q. Did you speak to any one about Mr. Taylor's residence as to whether or not a shot had been heard during the evening previous? A. Yes, I talked with Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean. Q. Did they fix any definite time that they believed they heard the shot. A. Mr. MacLean said it was about 8 or 8:15 o'clock. Mrs. MacLean thought it was a little later. Questioned by a juror Mr. Eyton answered as follows: Q. Was there any evidence of a struggle in the room? A. Not as far as I could see. Dr. A. S. Wagner, county autopsy surgeon was the next witness. Q. Did you perform an autopsy on William D. Taylor? A. Yes. Upon examination of the body of Mr. Taylor I found a bullet wound in the left side about 6 1/2 inches below the arm. The bullet passed through the left lung, and came out through the chest and over the right lung, lodging in the neck 4 1/2 inches to the left of the right shoulder. Q. What was the cause of Mr. Taylor's death? A. A gunshot wound in the chest caused his death. Mabel Normand, film star, was the next witness. She was not in the court when called, and was compelled to make her way through the crowd. The coroner told her to take a seat. She was plainly nervous, but not excited. Q. What is your name? A. Mabel Normand. Q. What is your occupation? A. Motion pictures. Q. Were you acquainted with William D. Taylor, the deceased? A. Yes. Q. Were you a visitor at his home last Wednesday evening? A. Yes. I arrived at his home at 7 p.m. Q. Did you leave Mr. Taylor alone in his room? A. No, he came with me out to the car. He stood and talked with me and told me he would call me at my home later in the evening. When I drove away I waved my hand at him and then he went back to his apartment. Q. Do you know when Henry Peavey, Mr. Taylor's valet, left the apartments? A. I don't know just exactly the time, but he left before I did. Q. Then Mr. Taylor told you that he would call you later, and did he ever call you? A. No; he never called me. When I told him 'good-by' at the car it was the last time I ever saw him alive. Henry Peavey, Taylor's valet was called to the stand. He told Coroner Nance that his occupation is that of cook and valet, and that he had been employed by Taylor for a period of six months. He said he was in the Taylor apartments on the evening of the tragedy. Q. When did you leave Mr. Taylor's home that evening? A. About 7:15 p.m. Q. Was there anyone else in the house besides yourself at the time you left? A. Miss Normand. That was all. Miss Normand came to the house to talk with Mr. Taylor about a book. It was a red-backed book, and they were discussing it when I left. They were both seated in the living-room not far from the front door. I had locked the back door and was leaving by the front door, and that's how I know where they were sitting. I always went out the front door when I went home in the evening. Q. When did you see Mr. Taylor again? A. The next morning about 7:30 o'clock. Q. What was Mr. Taylor doing when you next saw him? A. He was lying on the floor in the living-room flat on his back, a dead man. When I entered the door I first saw his feet. I didn't know what to think of his position on the floor and I spoke to him. I spoke to him two or three times, and then suddenly I saw blood on his face and on the floor, and then turned and ran out of the house, yelling at the top of my voice. Mr. Coroner, I was pretty badly scared, and I did not know what I was saying. Following a series of questions Peavey testified that Mr. Taylor was wearing the same clothing he had worn the evening before. He said that none of Mr. Taylor's jewelry had been disturbed. He also said the lights were burning just as they were the previous evening. The next witness was T. H. Ziegler. He stated he was a police officer and he had been called to the Taylor home that morning to investigate the shooting. Mr. Ziegler said: 'I found Mr. Taylor just inside the door of his apartments lying on his back, rigid and dead. Much blood had been flowing from his mouth, and it covered the back of his head and a portion of the floor near by. Q. Did you discover any evidence of violence? A. None whatever. Q. Did you find any weapons in the room? A. Not in that room. I went upstairs and found a 32-caliber automatic revolver in another room. It had five loaded shells in it, and had not been fired for days, perhaps weeks.
1922-02-04	Less than three hours before he was slain William Desmond Taylor, motion picture director, was mulling through volumes of poetry on the shelves of C. C. Parker's book store, 520 West Sixth street. Veiling an aesthete's enthusiasm behind a kindly reserve Taylor glanced casually through his beloved books and finally turned to Miss Mae Irons, saleslady. 'He purchased 'The Home Book of Verse' in two volumes,' Miss Irons said today. 'The work is a modern anthology of English verse. He paid $25 for it.' It was only a few minutes before 5 o'clock when Taylor left the Parker store. 'He seemed in normal spirits,' Miss Irons said. 'He was a very courteous gentleman. I did not know who he was until Mr. Parker told me afterward.' According to Miss Irons, Taylor said he was buying the anthology so that he might give one of the volumes to a friend. He had previously given the books to this friend, he explained, and one of them had been lost. Taylor introduced himself to Parker before leaving the store. 'I know you well by reputation,' Parker said to him jovially, 'but those of us who know, don't count much on reputation.' Taylor's answer was an amused smile. It is believed the motion picture director went almost immediately home from the book store...
1922-02-04	...Mrs. Deane-Tanner in Monrovia said the last check from Mr. Taylor came about January 20, last. She said she came to Monrovia nine years ago and got in touch with him six years ago, appealing to him for help.
1922-02-04	A motion picture actress whose name has thus far not been mentioned in connection with the murder of William Desmond Taylor, famous film director, late last night was the center of investigation of the combined forces of detectives detailed to solve the mystery of the slaying. Mr. Taylor was shot to death within a few minutes after Mabel Normand left his home last Wednesday night. For almost four hours the detectives closely questioned former employees of Mr. Taylor in an endeavor to check details of their new theory of the crime, which, they still believe, was inspired by a revenge motive with jealousy as the probable cause. Throughout the long questioning, which was conducted in the Detective Bureau of Central Police Station, every attempt was made to find out all facts regarding the past life and recent movements of Mr. Taylor. His friendship with such prominent motion-picture stars as Mabel Normand, Mary Miles Minter and Claire Windsor was discussed in detail. Many new features of his life were disclosed during the examination of these former employees. With the motion-picture actress mentioned last night the name of a director also was linked. The officers believe these two persons may be able to aid materially in clearing up the case. Throughout this investigation, however, efforts of the detectives were also directed toward finding Edward F. sands, former secretary and who was made defendant in a complaint in which Mr. Taylor charged him with forgery. Sands was in Los Angeles, the police believe, both on the day of the shooting and also the day before. Another witness saw him several days before the crime, they say. From Mrs. Earl Tiffany, wife of a former chauffeur of Mr. Taylor, it was learned she saw Sands last Tuesday, the day before the shooting. This meeting was in another part of the city, far removed from 404-B South Alvarado street, where Mr. Taylor, shot in the back, was found Thursday morning. Another witness is said to have seen Sands on South Alvarado street the night of the murder. These clews have caused the investigators to redouble their efforts to find the former employee, because they believe he can throw valuable light on the life of Mr. Taylor. Earl Tiffany, who was chauffeur for Mr. Taylor until a short time after Tiffany says he told Mr. Taylor he believed he would keep a record of the trips on which he took him, also was questioned. Mr. Tiffany added many clews to the few already in the possession of the detectives. He related in detail, as he remembered the incidents, many supposed facts concerning Mr. Taylor's friendship for Mary Miles Minter, film star whom he formerly directed, then for Mabel Normand, also an actress, and before either of them another woman whose activities are now being investigated by the police. After Mr. Tiffany was questioned, Harry Fellows, assistant director for Mr. Taylor and brother of Howard Fellows, Mr. Taylor's last chauffeur, was taken to the room with the detectives. He was closeted for a long time. In the meanwhile his wife and sister-in-law waited impatiently outside for him. Mr. Fellows is understood to have told the officers he could remember few details that might aid them. He formerly was chauffeur fro Mr. Taylor, but is asserted to have declared he could not recall the names of some of the persons about whom the detectives wanted to know. Mr. Tiffany was chauffeur for Mr. Taylor until last July. He had considerable experience as a chauffeur for another prominent motion-picture man during an exciting night just preceding an action for divorce filed by the latter's wife. Because of this experience, Mr. Tiffany says, he remarked to Mr. Taylor one day that he believed he would keep a diary on the trips he made so that he could know just where he went every day and would have record of it. Mr. Taylor said nothing, Mr. Tiffany says, but in a fortnight told Mr. Tiffany he would not require his services longer. Mr. and Mrs. Tiffany, both of whom know Sands personally and are familiar with his habits and opinions, believe he will be able to throw little light on the case except inasmuch as Mr. Taylor's past life may aid in solving the mystery. In telling of the incidents in Mr. Taylor's life which he observed, Mr. Tiffany said Mary Miles Minter formerly was a favored friend of Mr. Taylor. No other girl appeared to enter into Mr. Taylor's attentions. Later, a change came about, according to Mr. Tiffany, and on occasions when Miss Minter called at the Taylor house, Sands told her Mr. Taylor was not at home, when in fact, he was. About this time Mabel Normand came in for more and more attention from Mr. Taylor, the chauffeur's story continues. She was still the ruling favorite among the friends of Mr. Taylor, when Mr. Tiffany left his employ. In connection with this fact, Henry Peavey, negro houseman of the slain man, and who was questioned by the police again yesterday, said Mr. Taylor told him that if Miss Normand telephoned between 5 and 6 o'clock on the night of the slaying he was home, but if anyone else called he was not. Detective Sergeants Herman Cline, Winn, Murphy, Cato and Cahill, were active in the further questioning that took place last night... The name of Claire Windsor, motion-picture star who once was reported engaged to Charlie Chaplin, was thrust into the investigation when it was learned that she had been out riding and to a dinner with Mr. Taylor a week or so before the murder. It was the first time she had ever been out with him, her mother stated yesterday. The officers expressed a wish to ascertain whether she knew of any possible enemies, but Miss Windsor could not be located. The Coroner's inquest will be held this morning at 10 o'clock at the Ivy Overholtzer undertaking establishment. Several film celebrities have been subpoenaed to appear at the inquest. Mabel Normand, film actress, again was questioned by the police. No additional information was obtained, it was stated. Miss Normand relating again that she left Mr. Taylor's flat about 7:45 or 7:50 o'clock on the night of the murder and that Mr. Taylor accompanied her to her automobile. In this she was corroborated by her negro [sic] chauffeur, William Davis, also subpoenaed for the inquest. Mr. Taylor was shot, the police believe, within a very few minutes after Miss Normand left. The District Attorney's office swung into action in the case when a survey of the premises was made under the direction of Chief Dep. Dist.-Atty. Doran. Investigators from that office also were working on the mystery. Information was sought from Mary Miles Minter, a film-actress friend, who rushed to the house, becoming almost hysterical when she confirmed the report she had received Thursday morning that Mr. Taylor was murdered. Little information of value was obtained from her. The efforts to locate Miss Windsor yesterday assumed a peculiar turn. At her home her mother stated Miss Windsor was out on location with Marshall Neilan. At the studios of Mr. Neilan it was stated he was on location, but that Miss Windsor was not. Her mother said Miss Windsor had been with Mr. Taylor recently, but that for the last week has been very busy on location, being compelled to work late at night and into the early morning. For this reason she has been sleeping at the studio, and had not been home except at rare intervals, she stated. Charles Maigne, director at the Lasky studio, was closeted for more than an hour yesterday afternoon with Captain of Detectives Moffatt. The nature of the conference was not divulged. The motion-picture colony yesterday continued to seethe with the mystery of how and why Mr. Taylor, one of the leading figures in the industry, was murdered. Many rumors and reports connecting names of film stars in a way tending to show they may know something of the motives of the slayer were received during the day by the investigators...
1922-02-04	Witnesses at the inquest will include many nationally known persons who have been interviewed by police detectives concerning their knowledge of the crime. Those subpoenaed yesterday by Detective Sergt. Jack Wallis include the following: Mabel Normand, one of the best-known comediennes in the motion-picture profession and who was the last known person to have seen and talked with Mr. Taylor before his death. She had visited his home to get a book he had purchased for her and left his apartment only a few minutes before the time of his murder. Mrs. Douglas MacLean, wife of a widely known motion-picture star, whose front door is only a few paces from Mr. Taylor's apartment. Mrs. MacLean, upon hearing a shot, opened her door, looked out and saw a man leaving the Taylor apartments. She is the only person who has given the investigators an unquestioned first-hand description of the slayer. Charles Eyton, general manager of the Famous Players-Lasky Corporation, and the fourth husband of Kathlyn Williams, also a motion-picture star. Mr. Eyton, a personal friend of the slain man, was one of the first persons to arrive at the Taylor apartments and conducted an inventory of the murdered man's property. Verne Dumas, wealthy oil man, who also was one of the first neighbors to enter the apartment. William Davis, Miss Normand's chauffeur, who drove her to Mr. Taylor's home. His story corroborates that of his employer. Henry Peavey, colored servant employed by Mr. Taylor, who first discovered the body and who will relate incidents pertaining to the finding of the body. Howard Fellows, chauffeur for Mr. Taylor, who is expected to corroborate the time of the murder. Mr. Fellows visited the Taylor apartment at 8 p.m. on the night of the crime and though the home was lighted in all rooms he received no response at the door. He later called his employer on the telephone but failed to arouse anybody. E. J. Jessrund [sic], owner of the apartment occupied by Mr. Taylor and a neighbor who was one of the first to respond to Peavey's cries of 'murder.' Autopsy Surgeon Wagner, who will relate his findings in diagnosing the cause of Mr. Taylor's death.
1922-02-04	Did William D. Taylor, murdered film director of nation-wide fame, fear the fate in store for him and take every precaution the last few days of his life to surround his movements and whereabouts with utmost secrecy? This was the question asked yesterday by the investigators in their effort to reconstruct the circumstances that led to the slaying of the famous director in his palatial flat on Alvarado street last Wednesday night. A clew that led the officers to believe Taylor was uneasy about something in the days immediately preceding the shooting, was given to Detective Sergeants Cline, Murphy, Winn and Ziegler, yesterday, by Henry Peavey, colored porter and housekeeper for Taylor. Peavey was taken to the detective bureau of Central Police Station yesterday afternoon and there questioned by the officers on the case. His examination followed that of Howard Fellows, chauffeur for Mr. Taylor, and from information obtained by the officers from the two men, who knew intimate details of the slain film man's life, the officers obtained important tips. The most significant part of the new statement made by Peavey yesterday was that Taylor left the house on a mysterious call Wednesday afternoon, leaving the automobile behind. 'Mr. Taylor left the house about 5 o'clock, saying he wanted to walk, and leaving strict orders not to answer any telephone inquiries to the house with one exception,' said Peavey. 'He said that if Miss Normand called to tell her he would be back after 6 o'clock, but instructed me to tell everyone else he was out and that I did not know where he was or when he would be back.' From the few papers and documents obtained by them at the Taylor flat, the officers working on the case yesterday sought to glean, if possible, some clew as to where Taylor went when he left the house Wednesday afternoon. Names and addresses, recorded by Mr. Taylor, of a number of well-known persons in the film world and in business circles here are in the possession of the police, and a thorough check of these will be made in an effort to trace accurately and completely every movement of the slain film director on the days before his murder.
1922-02-04	What may prove to be an important clew in the hunt for the murderer of William D. Taylor was placed before the police last night in a report that a large automobile of striking appearance was seen in the vicinity of the Taylor home the night of the slaying. This automobile, according to the reports to the police, was an expensive car painted a chocolate-brown shade. The automobile, according to the reports, was seen to drive up to the Taylor home late in the afternoon and remain there for some time. It left the corner of Alvarado and Maryland streets a few minutes after the automobile of Miss Mabel Normand drove up. A peculiar part of this episode is a conflicting report from another source that an automobile described as a closed car, dark green in color, was the vehicle in question. The time and location given in the two reports check in every detail, but the make of car and color of the bodies are different. 'We are going to check every possible angle of this case,' Detective Sergeant Herman Cline said yesterday. 'There are a great many conflicting reports given us and for the first few days it is a large task to distinguish the important from what has no connection with the case. If we can verify certain facts laid before us in connection with this murder, then the description of these two cars will become very important.' This is the only comment the officers on the case would make on this phase of the investigation. The importance of the clew about the automobile described is that the police believe they may be able to trace the owners and from them learn either of visits to Mr. Taylor's apartment or about persons seen loitering in the vicinity of the place.
1922-02-04	The District Attorney's office swung into action yesterday in an attempt to solve the mystery of the murder of William Desmond Taylor and also to lay a foundation for future prosecution in the event the slayer is captured. At the same time the police searched Mr. Taylor's apartments at 404-B South Alvarado street, and took charge of letters, papers and documents that might serve to thrown some light on the slain film director's affairs. Chief Dep. Dist.-Atty. Doran and Investigator Contreras made a thorough search of the apartments, and canvass of the vicinity. Albert E. Timmons of the County Surveyor's office and two assistants, P. W. Atkins and R. B. Heuer, drew plans of each room and the territory contiguous to the residence. Detective Sergeants Herman W. Cline, Winn and Murphy, represented the police department in the search of the premises. Papers belonging to Mr. Taylor were taken to Central Police Station and carefully examined. The arrangement of the furniture in the room where the fatal shot was fired was not disturbed, as the officers stated a careful scrutiny would be made for possible finger prints. This phase of the investigation applies particularly in the chair in which Mr. Taylor was possibly sitting when shot, and which was found turned over across his legs. Mr. Taylor's apartments were tastefully furnished. There were books in profusion, mostly of a philosophical and sociological trend, numerous photographs of persons in the motion-picture colony, relics of the war, and much art work and bric-a-brac. The police yesterday questioned four persons found by The Times who had seen a man believed to be the slayer go to the Taylor residence before the shooting and leave the vicinity a few minutes after the bullet had been fired. The time of the murder has been fixed by police at between 7:49 and 8:15 p.m. Wednesday. L. A. Grant and Floyd Hartley, service station men, at Sixth and Alvarado streets, stated that a man had inquired of them where W. D. Taylor lived shortly before 6 o'clock. They directed him to the Alvarado street address, and he left. The description of this man corresponds with that of a man who boarded an inbound West First-street car at the Maryland-avenue stop, at either 7:54 or 8:25 p.m. Motorman R. S. Woodward and Conductor E. W. Dascomb took notice of the passenger because it was the first stop they had made on Maryland street for months. The man was described by these four persons as about five feet and nine or ten inches tall, 26 or 27 years old and weighing between 155 and 165 pounds. He had dark hair and wore a dark suit and either a light hat or cap. ...Floyd Hartley yesterday was unable to identify a picture of Sands as the man who inquired at the oil station. He was inclined to think they were different individuals, but was not positive. While the revenge and jealousy theories appear to be the most plausible thus far in the investigation the police are not overlooking the possibility of a blackmail angle. This factor is being probed by detectives detailed to the case. It is considered possible that the slayer attempted to extort money from Mr. Taylor and when refused or threatened with arrest, he shot to kill. An open checkbook on Mr. Taylor's writing desk and a pen with fresh ink on it might be considered part of a ruse by Mr. Taylor to 'stall off' the murderer until the police could be advised. The story that a woman is involved in the slaying--supplying the motive of jealousy--is seriously entertained by the police. Although the slain man led a fairly studious life it is known that he had a wide circle of women acquaintances and that some of them were visitors to his home. An enraged suitor who had been discarded might very easily have carried out this plan, it is believed, to eliminate Mr. Taylor as a rival. In order to ferret out a revenge motive, for some real or fancied wrong, the police say they will have to trace back the incidents in Mr. Taylor's life. He led a varied and exciting career that took him to many out-of-the- way places of the globe. Investigators feel confident that he must have incurred some bitter enmity during his activities and travels.
1922-02-04	...Another report brought forward in motion picture circles here was that the director and Miss Normand had feared trouble of some sort and that they had made plans secretly to have a wedding to head it off. Miss Adla St. John [sic], writer on motion picture topics, who has just returned from a trip to the coast, said she had not heard of such premonitions. 'Mr. Taylor was one of the quietest and best liked men in the motion picture colony,' she said. 'His death came as a sudden shock to me, as it did to all his friends here. I don't know of his having had an enemy. Every player was delighted every time he heard he was going to be under Mr. Taylor's direction.'
1922-02-04	The women attracting most interest from investigators now are Mabel Normand, Mary Miles Minter, Claire Windsor and Mrs. Clara Crawford Ivers [sic]. He was a close friend to all of them. In addition he was known as a man who fascinated women. The police, therefore, are seeking not only the actual slayer, but the person behind the slayer, if two were involved.
1922-02-04	Despite her denial of a love affair with William D. Taylor, a close friend of both Mabel Normand and the slain man said yesterday that Miss Normand had been engaged to the director. While nothing definite had been settled it was generally understood, according to this source, that they were to marry. 'Of course, Miss Normand was much sought after by young men in Los Angeles,' said this informant. 'But I'm quite sure none of these affairs was serious. Miss Normand simply would have a pleasant evening with one of them at a dance or a party, and promptly forget all about it. If the young man called her by telephone afterward, as likely as not she'd wonder where she'd ever heard his name before. 'Some one of these young men might have resented her acquaintance with Taylor. It's hard to say. I never heard of anything that might lead one to think some woman was jealous of his friendship for her.' Another report brought forward in motion picture circles here was that the director and Miss Normand had feared trouble of some sort and that they had made plans secretly to have a wedding to head it off... The report that Taylor had been engaged to Mary Miles Minter was scouted by her friends here. For one thing, it was pointed out that her recent reported engagement to Thomas E. Dixon, son of a pencil manufacturer, seemed much more substantial than any of the romantic affairs in which Miss Minter has been mentioned, and that this engagement was denied emphatically by both the youthful star and her mother, Mrs. Shelby.
1922-02-04	Police are also seeking a man, said to be a New York broker, the friend of a movie actress, whose name they will not reveal. He came here from the East, they say, shortly after the actress came. ...The figure of Miss Claire Windsor, moving picture actress, was rudely thrust into the mystery yesterday. A week ago Wednesday night Mr. Taylor and a prominent moving picture star called at the home of Miss Windsor's mother, Mrs. G. E. Cronk, and asked to take Claire to a party at the Ambassador Hotel. Claire went. It is declared that Taylor some few days later took Miss Windsor to another party and that nothing was heard of her again until yesterday morning, some hours after Taylor was found cold and stiff in his luxurious apartment, a bullet hole in his body. Miss Windsor could not be found today. Her mother said she was 'out on location' with Marshall Neilan, a director. At the office of the director this was denied. Neilan, it was said, was on location, but not Miss Windsor. Just what connection there may be between the murder and Miss Windsor's unexplained disappearance, if there be any connection, could not be learned. Mrs. Cronk could give no explanation. 'My daughter knew Mr. Taylor,' said Mrs. Cronk tonight. 'But the first time she ever went out with him was a week ago Wednesday night. 'Mr. Taylor came with an actor whom I do not know. I thought nothing of it, for a long time ago Mr. Taylor was her director, and, besides, Claire goes out to dinner parties and dances nearly every night. The ways of the movies are queer and not for me to ask questions about. 'I had not seen Claire since Sunday--not until this morning--but I thought nothing of that either. You see, she has a little boy three years old and he disturbs her when she sleeps at home. So she had a couch put in at her studio and she sleeps there in peace and no baby crying to wake her up. 'When she didn't come back, I wasn't particularly worried. I thought she was at the studio. She got home this morning and said to me, 'Isn't it too bad. Mr. Taylor has been murdered. Such a nice man.' Then she left to go out somewhere on location.' There has been no effort on the part of the police as yet to get in touch with Miss Windsor; but every effort is being made to learn everything possible about Taylor, his life, his friends and his enemies. All Hollywood is being raked; all the queer meeting places of the movie actors and actresses, directors and assistant directors, cameramen and extras--restaurants, beauty parlors, dens where opium and marihuana and other strange drugs are common, dens where men and women dress in silk kimonos and sit in circles and drink odd drinks--are being visited. Everyone who has come into contact with the slain director, no matter how remotely, is being questioned. Things that may shock the world of moving picture fans, are destined to come out of the mystery, it is said. Peculiar stars, male and female, may be scorched and smirched before the police investigation is over. And all the sins of the cinema colony will be made known. Dope fiends will figure in the tale before it is all told and strange effeminate men and peculiarly masculine women. The police are working now on two theories. One is that a beautiful woman is in back of the affair, someone of the hundreds of beautiful women of the studio world. Perhaps she was a woman scorned, or the sweetheart of another man, perhaps--but there are many motives and the police have not yet decided on any. The other theory is that an enemy made in that mysterious part of the dead man's life, which he so well kept from his friends in Hollywood, was the murderer. It is almost certain that a man committed the murder. A man was seen before and after the shot was heard, according to Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean, who live in the same court of apartments, and the other witnesses. And the shot that ended Taylor's life came from a .38 weapon, a gun deemed too big for a woman to carry. The man is presumed to have entered the Taylor apartment while Taylor was escorting Mabel Normand to her automobile, bidding her goodby. The shot came a few minutes after Taylor re-entered the house. There was no attempt at robbery. Taylor's pockets had not been emptied. His jewels had not been touched. Not a drawer in the four rooms had been opened. If the intruder had meant to rob, he shot too quickly and became frightened and fled. Yet, according to the MacLeans, the man who came out of the front door of the Taylor apartment just after the shot--a tall man, roughly dressed, with cap pulled down on his head and a muffler around his neck--showed no signs of fright. He stood in the doorway and looked back, then departed--in such a way that no suspicion was aroused in the minds of those who saw him. A thief fleeing in terror after a murder would not act that way, the police assert. There are too many strange incidents connected with the affair also, the police say, to admit of the theory that a bungling burglar fired the shot. There have been many mysterious telephone calls, according to the negro man servant and cook, Harry [sic] Peavey. The phone would ring and no one would answer. Was it someone who merely wished to be satisfied that Taylor was at home?... The detectives are still searching for Edward F. Sands, Taylor's former secretary, who is said to have departed from the household some time ago while Taylor was abroad, taking with him numerous trinkets, also the Taylor motor and some forged checks. A peculiar thing in the minds of the police is that both Sands and Peavey are of a queer type, affected, given to feminine ways. Peavey was placed under arrest a few days ago and serious charges were made against him... Taylor, fifty years old, supposed to be a bachelor, lived in a cozy four- room apartment with his man servant, Harry [sic] Peavey, a queer chap, with a high, squeaky voice, a man arrested a few days ago charged with a serious offense. Peavey was proud of his cooking; he made the finest rice pudding to be had in Hollywood. And he liked to crochet doilies and scarfs and things. Taylor lived alone with his books and his pictures and with Peavey. Howard Fellows, a likable young chap, drove the big automobile. ...He loved jewelry, had lots of it. Perhaps the chain diamond ring, valued at $2,500 is best known to his friends. There was perhaps $20,000 worth of jewels in the apartment when Taylor was killed. His friends described him as witty, the girls say he loved to tease them. Recently, say his friends, he had been visiting the queer places in Los Angeles, where guests are served with marihuana and opium and morphine, where the drugs are wheeled in on tea carts, and strange things happen. 'It is not odd,' they say, 'he was looking for color.'
1922-02-04	POLICE SEEK BUTLER IN TAYLOR MURDER Authorities Are informed He Threatened to Kill Film Director After Theft Charges. WAS SEEN IN LOS ANGELES Dead Man 's Daughter is Sought Here-War Veterans Plan a Military Funeral. Special to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Cal., Feb. 3. The first direct evidence connecting a suspect with the murder of William Desmond Taylor, moving picture director, was unearthed today, when the police were informed by one person that Edward. P. Sands, formerly employed by the dead man as a butler and accused by him of theft, had on the day before the murder threatened to kill Taylor. Two other persons informed the police that they had seen Sands in Los Angeles on the day before the murder. The police tonight were conducting a wide search for Sands, and they believe that his arrest would go a long way toward solving the mystery of Taylor 's death. The names of two young film actresses and another man who had not previously figured in the case also were linked with the investigation by the police, Subpoenas for more than half a score of film actors and actresses and men prominent in the motion picture industry were serveds by police detectives today for the inquest at 10:30 tomorrow morning over the body of Taylor. Among those who will testify will be Mary Miles Minter, Douglas MacLean, Mabel Normand, Edna Purviance, Charles Eyton, Mrs. Douglas MacLean and Mrs. Julius Crawford Ivers, Howard Fellows, a chauffeur employed by Taylor, and Henry Peavey, a negro servant in the Taylor home, were questioned by the police today. As a result of the inquiry the police say they definitely fixed the time of the murder at about 8 o'clock Wednesday evening. According to Fellows, he appeared at the Taylor home at 7:45 o'clock and rapped at the front door to summon his employer. The lights were burning, he said, but there was no response to his summons. Fifteen minutes later, he said, he tried to get Taylor by telephone, but without success. Peavey's story was the same as that he told after the body of Taylor was found. Home Is Searched. The police made a thorough search of Mr. Taylor's home today and took charge of letters, papers and documents that might serve to throw some light on the slain man 's affairs. They drew plans of each room and the territory about the residence, The arrangement of the furniture in the room where Taylor was shot was not disturbed, as the police declared that a careful scrutiny would be made for possible finger prints. Mr. Taylor's apartments were tastefully furnished. There were books in profusion, mostly of a philosophical and soclalistic nature," Taylor's funeral will not be held until next week. This was the decision reached today by his closest friends. A committee was appointed by the Directors' Association to plan for the funeral services, in which many motion picture stars will participate. Frank Lloyd, director for Norma Talmadge and one of Mr. Taylor 's closest Friends, stated that final arrangements would not be announced until investigators in New York had located the slain man's daughter, Ethel Daisy Taylor, who is said to be a pupil in a private school on Long Island. The Overseas Club, comprised of veterans of the British armies, is arranging to participate in the funeral services. Mr. Taylor was a soldier in the Canadian Army during the war and was retired as a Captain. Dr. H. M. S. Maddock of the Overseas Club declared that an escort of Canadian Army officers, a firing squad of Canadian ex-service men and a Scottish band to play the funeral dirge on the bagpipes will be furnished by the club. Lloyd stated that he would probably get a British military burial. A petition for probate of the estate of Mr. Taylor was filed today by Public Administrator Bryson. The petition stated that the estate is valued at approximately $60,000, but as various papers have not yet been found the exact  value is unknown. Listed in the petition are $6,000 in the bank, $4,500 in Government bonds, $5,000 in automobiles, jewels valued at $1,500 and incidentals about the house of an approximate value of $1,500. The heirs are unknown, the petition stated. A committee of investigation was organized today by the directing heads of the combined motion picture corporations to assist in solving the mystery surrounding the murder. The committee was formed following a meeting of the Motion Picture Directors' Association, of which Mr. Taylor was the head. Major Maurice Campbell, a member of the Famous Players-Lasky staff of directors, and a personal friend of the slain man, was named Chairman of the committee. The investigators, who have conferred with Captain of Detectives David Adams, are mostly former army officers who were personally acquainted with Mr. Taylor. Today the investigators were engaged in reviewing Mr. Taylor's career to determine if he had any personal enemies. They have also begun a canvass of all the studios to find any persons who may be of some assistance in their investigation. While the revenge and jealousy theories appear to be the most plausible, the police are not overlooking the possibility of blackmail. It is considered possible that the slayer attempted to extort money from Mr. Taylor and when refused and threatened with arrest he shot to kill. An open check book on Mr. Taylor's writing desk and a pen with fresh ink on it, might be deduced as part of a ruse by Mr. Taylor to "stall the murderer off" until he could advise the authorities. The theory that a woman is involved in the slaying is being seriously entertained by police. Although the slain man led a studious life, it is known that he had a wide circle of acquaintances and that many of them were frequent visitors to his home. It is said that Taylor's first wife lives in Mamaroneck, L.I., with her daughter, Ethel Daisy Taylor. It is thought that she still used the name Taylor, though this is not certain.
1922-02-04	LAYS TAYLOR'S DEATH TO UNKNOWN SLAYER. INQUEST IN LOS ANGELES ENDS. Inquest in Los Angeles Ends Abruptly Without Hearing All the Film Stars Summoned. Special to the New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Cal., Feb. 4 - Ending with dramatic suddenness after a few witnesses had been examined, and with detectives rushing from the scene in an automobile on a mysterious clew, the inquest over the body of William Desmond Taylor, film director, who was murdered in his home on Wednesday night, today added new sensations to the murder case. The developments at the proceedings were: Henry Peavey, Taylor's negro servant, collapsed when taken into the Morgue to view the body just before the inquest started. He was revived, called to the witness stand, and there became hysterical, laughing loudly when asked what he did upon finding the dead body of his employer. Coroner Vance suddenly halted the inquest after calling but one of the motion picture actresses summoned, Mabel Normand, and several of the jury then retired and returned a verdict that Taylor was killed "by a gunshot wound inflicted by a person or persons unknown to this jury, with intent to kill or murder." Captain of Detectives David Adams reached the scene just as the last witness was excused. He summoned Detective Sergeant Herman Cline and other police officers present and they droe away in an automobile, going west on Tenth Street. A vast crowd of curious persons was attracted by the inquest, the first formal hearing in the case: many who were unable to gain entrance stood in the street to get a glimpse of actors, actresses, and others who actively participated in the proceedings. There was a hush of expectation when Coroner Nance called Miss Mabel Normand as a witness. She appeared calm as she walked to the witness chair and formally gave her name. "I saw Mr. Taylor at his home on Wednesday evening," Miss Normand stated. "I called at 7 o'clock that evening and left at about 7:45 o'clock. Mr. Taylor escorted me to my automobile at the curb and we chatted a moment. After the car started away and as it was turning around I turned and waved my hand to him. He was standing on the sidewalk." Miss Normand was asked who was present at the Taylor house during the Taylor house on Thursday. was the final visit. She replied that the only other person there besides herself and the slain man was Henry Peavey, the colored servant. "He left the house fifteen or twenty minutes before I did," Miss Normand said. The witness said that Mr. Taylor had promised to telephone her at home later that evening. She added that she went home and retired and did not again hear from Mr. Taylor. Charles Eyton, general manager of the Lasky studios, where Taylor had been emplyed as chief director, was the first witness. He testified that Taylor was 45 years old and had once been married. The Coroner questioned the witness briefly concerning the career of the slain man. The second witness was Dr. A. F. Wagner county autopsy surgeon. He testified that the bullet entered Taylor's body at the left side, penetrating between the lobes of the left lung and lodging in the neck. Tom Ziegier, Detective Sergeant, who was the first official to reach the Tayylor, witness. He explained how he made the preliminary investigation, explaining that when he first arrived it was believed Taylor had died of a hemorrhage. The only weapon found in the house was Taylor 's revolver, Ziegler said. It was in a dresser drawer in the bedroom and was a  .32-calibre automatic gun. As Ziegler stepped from the stand Coroner Nance remarked "That is all," and the inquest abruptly ended. Many of the spectators, anticipating the questioning of others prominent in motion picture circles, appeared to be dazed by the abrupt termination of the proceedings. 
1922-02-04	Nothing shown on the screen has so far exceeded in weirdness the things actually done by the movie players.
1922-02-04	The latest 'release' from Los Angeles cinema colony is that of a thriller that promises to run through more than one reel. It is the tale of a murder, sordid, perhaps, in its intimate details, yet possessed of the one attribute dear to the producer's heart, that of mystery. How or in what manner it will end is just now beside the case. That wonderful community of abnormal personalities will continue to hold a fair place on the front page for some time yet because of this unpretty contribution to the record its habitues have made. Will H. Hays will find in it at least one of the minor problems he will have to deal with, although it is conceivable that the regulation of the private lives of the actors who disport before the camera is not included in the business management of the great industry. Unfortunate though it be, the assembling in more or less forced intimacy of considerable numbers of persons of both sexes whose code of personal behavior is not the rigid sort that pervades the general walk of life, is likely to produce results that shock the world by their nature. Nothing shown on the screen has so far exceeded in weirdness the things actually done by the movie players. Men and women in other walks of life have suffered by similar tragedies, but it is the movie stars' misfortune in such cases that millions of people had interest in them. Their every act almost, even those of personal conduct, are on a public stage.
1922-02-04	Mabel Normand, one of the last persons to see William D. Taylor alive when she visited his Alvarado street home Wednesday evening to borrow a book on philosophy, denied emphatically today that she was or ever had been engaged to Taylor. 'We were pals of the golf course, fellow students in French and both enjoyed delving into philosophical subjects--that was my relation with Mr. Taylor. Just pals,' she said. Miss Normand was recovering this afternoon from a nervous collapse which she suffered when told of Taylor's murder. 'I wish to deny also the statement attributed to me that Mr. Taylor had told me of premonition of his death,' added Miss Normand. 'I never heard him mention any fear for his life or fear of any person or persons. 'Although we were good pals and had many interests in common, I was so slightly acquainted with his personal affairs that not until I read it in the papers did I know that Mr. Taylor had a daughter.'...
1922-02-04	Mary Miles Minter, motion picture star, who said she had always considered him the 'most perfect man' and who was one of the first to call at the Taylor residence after the murder became known, said: 'It is ridiculous for any one to intimate that Mr. Taylor and I were ever interested in each other in a sentimental way. 'I have known Mr. Taylor since I was a little girl. He has directed me in some of my best pictures and I have always loved and admired him almost as one would a father. 'Immediately after mother told me of his murder we hurried to his home. I have often been there with my mother or grandmother and when I came fact to face with Henry, his colored servant, I burst into tears yesterday. 'One newspaper said I had hysterics,' continued Miss Minter. 'Perhaps I did. Mr. Taylor was an old friend of the family and I have known him ever since I was a child playing child parts. 'I used so often to call Henry, his faithful servant, over the telephone and ask him if Mr. Taylor had remembered to eat his dinner, or to tell him to be sure that Mr. Taylor had plenty of covers on his bed, as it was a cold night. 'As far as I know, Mr. Taylor was never married. 'I do not believe that he was engaged to Mabel Normand. Miss Normand and myself are very good friends and I am sure I would have known had they been planning to marry. I think that Mr. Taylor found Miss Normand a lovable and rather boyish pal and that was all there was to it. 'For the last three and a half years I have known Mr. Taylor very well, although during the last five months or so I have scarcely seen him, having been so busy with my work. He directed me in 'Anne of Green Gables,' Judy of Rogues Hollow' [sic], 'Nurse Marjorie,' and 'Jenny be Good.' 'Mr. Taylor was always the man we all pointed to when any one asked us to name a representative man of the profession. 'No, I never heard him mention having any fear of any one, and I am positive he had no premonition of trouble. 'I have wept hours since his death and I expect to weep a great deal more. For Mr. Taylor was one of the most splendid and fine men that I ever expect to know.'
1922-02-05	...Taylor appeared in Telluride when apparently at the end of one of the low ebbs of his financial endeavors. He acted as night clerk for the New Sheridan Hotel there from June 10, 1910, until December 15, of the same year.
1922-02-05	The assassination of William Desmond Taylor, Wednesday night, postponed forever an engagement which the film director had with Antonio Moreno, film star, on Thursday morning. When Moreno talked with Taylor over the telephone Wednesday night, about 7 o'clock, Taylor was in the best of spirits, according to Moreno's story told yesterday. But when the time came for the appointment to be fulfilled the following morning, between 10 and 10:30 o'clock, the film director's corpse lay in a local undertaking company's morgue, pierced by a murderer's bullet. Moreno said yesterday that he had been an intimate friend of Taylor for several years, since the time Taylor had become associated with the old Vitagraph Company at Santa Monica in 1914. 'He was one of the finest men I ever met,' 'Tony' said. 'He had the highest ideals, I believe, of any man I've ever met in the profession.' Details of a dinner party which he attended with Taylor, Miss Betty Francisco and Miss Claire Windsor, at the Ambassador Hotel Thursday night, January 27, were given by Moreno, as well as an informal meeting held between Moreno, Taylor, Arthur Hoyt and a Captain Robinson [sic], January 28, at Moreno's room at the Los Angeles Athletic Club. 'I left them there about 7 o'clock,' Moreno said, 'to go to a dinner party at the Ambassador, which I had arranged for a friend visiting here from Chicago. Later, I understand, the three went to dinner at a roadhouse between Los Angeles and Pasadena--I do not know its name--and then on to the Annandale Club after dinner, finally going to Taylor's home.' Moreno declared he had spent about two hours last Monday with Taylor at the Vitagraph studio, where Moreno is working. He had an appointment with him for Tuesday, also, but the director, according to Moreno, did not fill it because of a trip to Mount Lowe on location. 'Then I called him again Wednesday night,' Moreno said, 'about 6 o'clock. His boy, Henry, answered the phone. Mr. Taylor was not at home. However, he called me later, about 7, and we arranged that I should call for Mr. Taylor, at the Lasky studio, about 10 o'clock Thursday morning. Mr. Hoyt was with me in my room at the time. Mr. Taylor was to go with me to the Vitagraph studio, on a matter of personal business.' 'But--' and here Moreno gave a sorrowful shake of his head--'But you know the rest. The appointment was not fulfilled--and never will be. 'I feel that in Mr. Taylor's death I've lost one of the best friends I've ever know. And I'll do everything in my power to run down the man who killed him.'
1922-02-05	Out of the tangled lives of two brothers, deputy sheriffs last night were endeavoring to find the secret of the death of William D. Taylor. Both had been married; both were fathers; both had everything to hold them at home. But both mysteriously disappeared from their homes and their old haunts. One is dead, after a reappearance in a new land--the West--and died in the glory of a success in his chosen field. The other has never reappeared--unless in some way the other brother is connected with the murder of William D. Taylor. The amazing story of a double life, as told exclusively in the city additions of The Examiner yesterday from the lips of Mrs. Ada Deane-Tanner, sister-in-law of the dead man, was elaborated upon yesterday by her. Reports had reached officials here yesterday from the East and from San Francisco that Mrs. Deane-Tanner had not married Dennis, the brother, but had married William, the director, who was murdered here last Wednesday night. This Mrs. Deane-Tanner yesterday emphatically denied, in her modest Monrovia home, in East Lemon street, just around the corner from the home of Coroner Willis O. Nance. 'I can prove,' she said, 'that I am not the director's widow. I am his sister-in-law. I have a marriage license here somewhere which shows I married Dennis, not William. The records in New York City will show separate licenses on separate years for the marriages of Dennis and William. Dr. Pomeroy, the county health officer, by brother-in-law, knew Dennis, my husband, and can tell you he is not the man shown in photographs as the famous director.' This was her convincing story, told in a whisper from the couch, where she lay ill from the shock of the tragedy and the sudden forcing of her and her history into the glaring limelight. Mrs. Deane-Tanner admitted to The Examiner yesterday for the first time that she had divorced her husband in Los Angeles six years ago. The divorce, she said, was granted by Superior Judge Charles Monroe on the grounds of desertion and nonsupport. At the time of the divorce case, Mrs. Deane-Tanner said, she recited, in brief, the story of the mysteriously disappeared husband and as there was no contest the divorce was granted. At the time, however, no mention of the relationship between this unknown woman and the famous director was made and even her relationship to Mrs. Pomeroy was not known. In a large way, backing up and corroborating the story told by the old woman, was the story given to The Examiner by Dr. Pomeroy himself. 'I cannot say for sure,' stated the county official, 'that William Desmond Taylor was not Dennis Gage Deane-Tanner. 'But I can hardly believe that they were one and the same man. 'I've seen pictures of the murdered man, though to my knowledge I never saw him in the flesh, and this man is not the man I knew in New York as my relative by marriage.' Dr. Pomeroy admitted that he had naturally not seen Dennis Deane-Tanner since his disappearance in New York years ago, but he stated that he has a good recollection on his appearance and that he was unquestionably not William. 'I never saw the two brothers together,' he continued, 'and in fact, I never saw the elder brother, William. But there must have been two brothers, as Dennis frequently mentioned William. I met him several times in the East.' Dr. Pomeroy also corroborated his sister-in-law's story that she had employed detective agencies to search for her husband when he disappeared, but that no trace of the man had ever been found. The theory of certain officers that for the solution of the crime the investigators should go back to New York, 1912, instead of Los Angeles, 1922, met with little enthusiasm from Mrs. Deane-Tanner yesterday, although she admitted that in the mysterious past of the two brothers some common motive might be linked. 'I am more inclined to believe,' she said, 'that the solution of the crime lies in some quarrel or misunderstanding of recent origin--something growing out of the associations he has formed since coming to this Coast. Somehow I can't believe that the disappearance of my husband and William's disappearance had any connection, and though I wouldn't at all be surprised to learn that my former husband is still alive, I can't believe that he could possibly be connected with his brother's death in any way--even as a possible fellow victim.' The sister-in-law of the murdered man made light of a theory that some old English feud might have been behind the mystery in the lives of both brothers--some overwhelming tragedy which, if disclosed, would make trivial the astounding revelations so far before the public. Mrs. Deane-Tanner's elaborated story of her relationship in this maze of tangled lives is as follows: 'My maiden name was Ada C. Brennan. I was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. K. Brennan of New York. Both my parents are dead. 'I was married to Denis Gage Deane-Taylor [sic], a man considerably smaller than his brother, though of similar general appearance, in 1907 in New York. 'By that marriage I had two daughters, Muriel, now 14, and Alice, now 12 years old. 'In 1912 I had lung trouble and my husband sent me to the Adirondack Mountains for a rest cure. When I had been there a week I suddenly received a telegram from my mother in the metropolis to come home at once. I immediately took a train for the city and when I arrived I learned that my husband had disappeared. 'We hunted high and low for him. We employed detectives and did every manner of things possible to make likely his discovery, but in vain. To this day I have never heard from or heard of my husband. 'After futile waiting and wondering and heart-broken nights trying to live until the next hard day of raising two children, fatherless, I sued for divorce and was awarded a decree. 'During the time I was married I became very friendly with Mrs. Frederick Young of New York. She was the former wife of Edward Thaw, a half brother of Harry K. Thaw. 'I was also a good friend of Ethel Putnam, daughter of George H. Putnam, and her sister, Dorothy; one year on a tour of Europe stopped at Kent, England, to visit Mr. Deane-Tanner's family. Thus I learned something of William Deane-Tanner, though I met him personally but several times in my life. 'Both these sisters finally were married and I have lost track of them-- don't even know their names now. 'Finally, after futile searches for my husband, I and my children moved to Monrovia, to stay at the home of my sister, Mrs. Pomeroy, at 240 East Palm street, and after they moved, I came to this address. 'My husband, while with me in New York, worked for A. S. Vernay, 12 East Forty-Fifth street, as an interior decorator, and when he disappeared Mr. Vernay could find no business reason for his having done so. His books, as were his brothers books four years before on his disappearance, were perfect and his work had been most satisfactory, Mr. Vernay said. 'On November 28, 1915, here at Monrovia, I was notified that Mrs. Young, my friend, had died and had left to me a bequest which amounted to roughly $1000 a year for life. With other moneys I had, this annuity would have made it possible for me to have taken care of my children amply for life, but through litigation, on some technicality, I never was able to get my bequest. 'Mrs. Young died on November 6, 1915, and her estate was compared to be of some $1,000,000. We had always been good friends and she was most kind to me at all times. 'In the letter advising me of the bequest it was stated that as soon as the estate was settled I would receive the money quarterly.' Turning back to her brother-in-law, now dead, she went on: 'My first child, Muriel, was born in New York city in 1908, in November, and after her birth I met my brother-in-law for the first time. Denis' brother came up to see me and his little niece, but we talked only a short time. He was considerably larger than Denis, but similar to him in general appearance, as I have said. 'From then on I saw him only occasionally. 'His disappearance, the talk of the town at that time, however, I shall not easily forget. 'It was the day of the notable Vanderbilt Cup race on Long Island, in November, 1908. William had witnessed the race, and had been seen there by scores of his friends, as he was popular. 'The next day the earth had swallowed him. He was gone, had disappeared and it was several years before he was heard from again, and then only indirectly. 'His wife, the former Ethel Hamilton, Floradora girl, was devoted to him and they had but few quarrels, but her grief was no greater than my husband's at his brother's loss. 'He was inconsolable and for months though of nothing else. If he had any suspicion of how and why his brother had gone he never whispered a word of it to me and I never for a moment thought, or think now, that he knew. 'That there was anything in their mutual past that could have caused this tragedy I cannot believe. 'Of course, William's relations with his wife, which I have referred to, I knew only by gossip, but naturally took it at the time at its face value.' Before her death, Mrs. Young made a trip to California and while here learned that William Deane-Tanner, known as William D. Taylor, was at work in motion pictures and 'was doing well,' according to Mrs. Deane-Tanner's story. 'Petey' he was known then, and apparently when Mrs. Young communicated this information to the former show girl in New York, Taylor's wife, she was surprised to learn that the girl already knew of her husband's whereabouts and was not surprised to learn that Taylor was here in pictures under a new name. Nevertheless, it was a shock to the Deane-Tanner's friends there, because the young wife was not supposed to know anything of her husband's whereabouts. Mrs. Ada Deane-Tanner's attempts to interview Taylor, the director, on her arrival here, his denial of identity, and his finally sending her an allowance, though still denying that he was related to her, was told exclusively in yesterday's Examiner and this story was not changed in the least by the sister-in-law yesterday. His letter to her, telling her that he would send her the money, Mrs. Deane-Tanner said, she still had and would produce, with the marriage license only if forced to by the authorities, saying that she saw no reason for doing so. Mrs. Deane-Tanner in Monrovia yesterday was being advised by several men, one connected with a bank there and the other an attorney, but neither of these men would make a statement. Being ill, she was attended by a neighbor and her children were being taken care of elsewhere. Miss Kate Collins, principal of the Wild Rose school in Monrovia, where the two children attended, was high in her praise of the two kiddies. She said she remembered when the Deane-Tanners arrived there, because of their relationship to Mrs. Pomeroy, but had no knowledge until reading The Examiner yesterday of her relationship to the film director. Both Muriel and Alice, she said, were among the brightest in their classes, Muriel being in the eighth grade and Alice in the sixth. Both she described as always cheerful and anxious to help others, and Alice, she said, is of the 'smiley' type, always with a cheerful grin greeting her friends and teachers. One of the girls, Muriel, is said to have a marked resemblance to her murdered uncle, both Mrs. Deane-Tanner and one of her advisers said yesterday. Chief of Police E. A. Bovee of Monrovia, is taking an active interest in the case, giving the sheriff's office all help possible in his end.
1922-02-05	...[telling of Henry Peavey on the witness stand at the inquest] 'What did you see?' 'I saw his feet, and I said 'Mr. Taylor'--just like that. Then I saw his face, and I turned and run out and yelled. And then I yelled some more--' And then Henry broke into high pitched laughter as he recalled his fright and terror. Laughed as he thought of himself going in and speaking to a dead man. It was a huge joke--no doubt about it. And the joke was on him. Of course, He laughed and those in the room laughed with him...
1922-02-05	Denver, Feb. 4--A clew uncovered her today suggests the possibility that the murder of William Desmond Tanner Taylor was a case of mistaken identity. Coupled with the statement of friends of Taylor that he was a genial soul, without a known enemy in the world, the theory that he was murdered by a person who though he was someone else becomes probable. This new angle on the case was furnished by Judge Ben B. Lindsey of the Juvenile Court, who became intimate with Taylor during the filming of 'The Soul of Youth,' a picture which Taylor directed and in which Judge Lindsey was featured. Lindsey said that Taylor had told him of his experiences in Denver ten years ago, when the famous director was a mining engineer working at Ouray. On one of his frequent visits to Denver, Taylor told Lindsey he had been mistaken for another man by a policeman and placed under arrest. When Taylor protested and affirmed that he was not the man in question, the policeman attacked him with his club and beat him severely. He was lodged in the city jail over night. Taylor's story continued, but in the morning was able to establish his identity and was released with profuse apologies. He never learned the name of the man he was mistaken for and was booked merely 'For investigation.' Was Taylor the walking image of some underworld character? Was he murdered for revenge by some crook whom his double had betrayed? Did he know his own double and was he slain by the man he looked like to prevent his informing the police of the caller's actions? These are questions which the authorities will have to solve in their investigations of the film director's mysterious murder. Judge Lindsey himself did not suggest the possibility of Taylor's being slain my mistake. He appeared quite perplexed about a motive for the crime, describing Taylor as one of the kindliest and most gentle men he had ever known. By a coincidence he was reading a letter from Louis Sargent, who played the leading juvenile role in 'The Soul of Youth' when he learned of the director's death. 'Don't you wish we could appear together again in one of Mr. Taylor's pictures?' wrote Louis. Scarcely a moment later Mrs. Lindsey entered the judge's room and informed him of Taylor's murder. 'William Desmond Taylor was one of the finest types of gentlemen I ever met,' said Judge Lindsey today. 'He was not the type of man one would connect with scandal in the movies. I don not believe that anything will develop from this tragedy to throw discredit upon his character. 'He was a scholarly man, patient, kindly, and gentle. Perhaps his quiet disposition may have developed the impression of his being a 'mystery man.' I do not believe there is any mystery to his discredit. 'It was in May, 1920, that I was with him almost daily while we were working together on a moving picture called 'The Soul of Youth,' in which I consented to do the part of a judge of a juvenile court. During this time I met him frequently at the studio and a number of times at the office. 'He was interested in the boy problem, as shown by his productions of 'Tom Sawyer,' 'Huckleberry Finn' and 'The Soul of Youth.' I watched his work at the studio with children, and I used to tell him he would make an excellent juvenile court judge because he had such marvelous patience and could get so much out of children. I suppose that is the reason he got so much out of the stars among the women whom he had successfully directed, including Mary Pickford, Mary Miles Minter, Elsie Ferguson and others. 'He had been the means of helping one little girl whom I once knew in this court and was always glad to acknowledge any of my letters about young people I knew in connection with the movies. 'The last I heard of him was about the first of the year, when he sent me a little Christmas and New Year message.'
1922-02-05	...Late last night Detective Captain Adams, after a three hour conference with Mary Miles Minter, issued an official statement in which he said, 'Detective Sergeants Cato and Cahill, together with myself, interviewed Miss Minter. We talked with her several hours regarding her relations with Taylor. We are absolutely satisfied that Miss Minter knows nothing that will throw any light at all on this mystery nor do we believe that she is even remotely connected with the case.' It was rumored late last night that Edward F. Sands, discharged secretary of William Desmond Taylor, who has been sought as a material witness in the slaying of Taylor, had been found, questioned and placed in secret custody... Another man was being looked for last night in the person of a man whose reputation has been none too savory. While there is no direct evidence implicating him, he is one of those persons coming within that classification so frequently described in blunt police comment, 'I wouldn't put it past him.' Possible suspicion would not have turned in his direction but it had been noted by some of this fellow's acquaintances that he had not been seen in his familiar haunts since the murder. He is described as a man much easier to find than to lose and the picture colony has been whispering about him. George Contreras of the district attorney's investigating staff, and Deputy Sheriffs Fox, Nolan and Bell, who yesterday entered the case, were in a search for this man last night. If he is not the actual murderer they expect him to tell a story which will materially advance the investigation. An earlier development of the day, however, struck the picture colony with more amazement that this feature. It was the report that one of the big figures of the screen, a man whose sudden rise to fame has been one of the marvels of the profession, was under suspicion. His name was first linked with the crime as a possibility to be considered because he had been paying marked attention to an actress who is known to have been one of Taylor's most intimate friends. Then came the reminder that the man in question answers the physical characteristics of the assassin whom Mrs. Douglas MacLean saw leaving Taylor's apartment shortly after a shot had been heard. It was further recalled that this man often wore a dark silk scarf, such as that figuring in Mrs. MacLean's description, and also a cap. However, it was learned last night that this man had voluntarily offered to account for every minute of his time on Wednesday night. It is stated in this connection that the actor has explained a telephone conversation he had with Taylor two days before the murder. The woman whose name has been mentioned professes entire ignorance as to both the motive and the facts of the crime... Captain Adams yesterday declared that an arrest would be made within twenty-four hours, probably less. 'Working secretly, and while the suspected murderer believed that suspicion was falling on another person,' he said, 'detectives from my office have woven a chain of evidence that we believe is unbreakable. 'The net of evidence about this man is tightening like the inexorable tentacles of a deep sea monster. The motive has been established, the activities of the suspect have been checked to the night of the murder and detectives will locate his hiding place easily when the links in the chain are complete. 'A woman may have been, and possibly was, the indirect cause of the crime, but no woman directed the murderer in this case.'
1922-02-05	William D. Taylor appeared to be in the best of health and spirits about one hour before he was shot down in his own apartment at 404-B South Alvarado Street. He did not appear to have any premonition of what lay in store for him, although, according to the police theory of the slaying of the film director, the murderer was then lurking in the shadows a few feet away from Mr. Taylor. This was disclosed yesterday by Tony Moreno, Vitagraph star. Mr. Moreno's story of his conversations with the slain director on the night of the murder and for a week prior to the shooting, furnish an important check on Mr. Taylor's movement for at least seven days preceding the shooting. 'I played golf with Mr. Taylor exactly a week before his death. We drove to the San Gabriel Country Club and remained there from about noon till dark. While there I introduced him to Asa Keyes, the Deputy District Attorney.' Mr. Moreno said yesterday at his apartment, in the Los Angeles Athletic Club. 'The next day I saw him again. I met him at the Ambassador at a party. Mr. Taylor was with Miss Claire Windsor. I saw him leave the hotel with her. There were a number of picture people there that night. 'Saturday night--that is, a week ago tonight--Mr. Taylor was here in the club. He was in my room and with us were Arthur Hoyt and Capt. Robertson, who is a close friend of Mr. Taylor. We sat and talked a while. Then Mr. Taylor, Mr. Hoyt and Capt. Robertson left. Later I learned they drove to Cedar Grove, near Pasadena, and had something to eat there. From there they drove to the Annandale Country Club. 'I saw Mr. Taylor next at the Lasky studios, Monday morning at 10 o'clock. I had an appointment with him to go to the Vitagraph studios, on a matter of business importance to me. Chester Bennett of the Brunton studios, was with us. We were together until 12:30 p.m. that day. 'We were unable to see the people we wanted that day. The appointment had to be made over again. I called Mr. Taylor again, Tuesday at the Lasky lot, but I did not get to talk to him. I was informed that he was out on location on Mt. Lowe. Tuesday, which was the day before the murder, I could not get in touch with him. 'Wednesday night Mr. Taylor called me at the club. I was in Mr. Hoyt's room, when the call came. We discussed the business appointment I wanted Mr. Taylor to participate in. As near as I can now recall it, it was about 7 o'clock when Mr. Taylor called. He did not tell me much about his trip to Mt. Lowe. 'Mr. Hoyt was present at the conversation. It lasted several minutes. Mr. Taylor then made an appointment for Thursday morning, at 10 o'clock. He appeared to be in best of spirits. He was pleasant and cheerful. 'It was a few minutes after 7 that Mr. Taylor hung up. Then Mr. Hoyt and I went to the club dining-room and stayed there for dinner. 'Thursday morning, Mr. Hoyt called me and told me I would not be able to keep the appointment with Mr. Taylor because he was dead. He then told me what he read in the papers.' The investigators last night began to check up the facts supplied by Mr. Moreno in an effort to supply the missing links and thus account for every action and movement of the slain director. Mr. Moreno's story supplied much important data, the officers say.
1922-02-05	Missing letters and telegrams sent by Mabel Normand, celebrated film star, to William Desmond Taylor, the famous motion-picture director who was slain last Wednesday night within a few moments after Miss Normand left his home, formed the basis of a separate investigation hinging about the murder mystery last night. Captain of Detectives Adams and Detective Sergeants Cato and Cahill last night questioned Mary Miles Minter, also a widely known screen actress, concerning her knowledge of the life of Mr. Taylor. The officers, after a long session with Miss Minter, declared they had uncovered no important new facts. Miss Normand made a personal visit to the home at 404-B South Alvarado street, where Mr. Taylor's body was found, a bullet in his back and she asked for her letters. She went to the top drawer of Mr. Taylor's dresser to get them. They were not there. Captain of Detective Adams told her he did not know where they were. Late last night he repeated the statement. With the officials seeking these letters Charles Eyton, general manager of the Famous Players-Lasky studio and who assumed charges of many of the dead man's personal effects, also stated he did not have them, according to police. The visit of Miss Normand, directly after the Coroner's inquest earlier in the day, was dramatic in many respects. She appeared at the Taylor apartment while Officers Cline, Cahill, Cato and Winn were there with Capt. Adams. Mabel Normand then re-enacted the scene that the officers believe took place shortly before the fatal shot was heard by neighbors within a few minutes after Miss Normand left. She arranged the furniture of the handsomely appointed apartment as it was on the last visit she paid to the director, who has filmed such stars as Mary Pickford, Mary Miles Minter, Betty Compson and others. She showed where the chair that was overturned on Mr. Taylor's legs when the body was found, was standing when she left the home about 7:45 p.m. last Wednesday. She again told of some of the conversation which she and Mr. Taylor had that night. And she showed how Mr. Taylor had escorted her from the court of the apartments to her automobile, in which her chauffeur was sitting... But during this visit, Miss Normand asked for her letters. She said she knew Mr. Taylor kept them in the top drawer of his dresser and there the search was directed in vain. Public Administrator Bryson could not be found all day yesterday but the officers declare that to the best of their knowledge he has not taken charge of the letters. Miss Normand last night said, 'I am surprised that anyone should have been interested in these letters of mine to Mr. Taylor. I am sure there is nothing in them of any interest to the general public. 'There is nothing in them that would help the police in any way. There were some of my letters in Mr. Taylor's room--I would say six or seven and several telegrams I had sent him while I was in New York. 'The letters, too, were those sent by me to Mr. Taylor, when he was in New York or when I was in New York. 'I knew they were in his dresser drawer because he showed them to me once when he showed me over the house immediately after he was robbed. 'On that occasion he happened to open the top drawer of his dresser and I saw the letters. 'I said, 'Why, you're not keeping those letters, are you?' and he made some pleasant remark, saying he was keeping them.' In addition to the mystery of Miss Normand's letters and the efforts of the officers to reconstruct as nearly as possible the scene before the crime investigators from the detective bureau, the District Attorney's office and the Sheriff's office worked well into the night unraveling some of the loose ends of the case. Mary Miles Minter, film luminary and close friend of Mr. Taylor, was reported early yesterday to be confined to her home because of illness. On the morning the murder was discovered she rushed to the Taylor home and became almost hysterical when she confirmed the news of his death. ...Placing the home of a widely known Hollywood man under surveillance late yesterday, officers were searching last night for this man, who is wanted as a material witness. Several new clews, one of which is declared to have placed this man's automobile in the vicinity of the Taylor flat at 404-B South Alvarado street about the time of the slaying, have been uncovered. This man is widely and somewhat unfavorably known among many film celebrities and his name has figured in previous police investigations. His mysterious visits at homes of several members of the film colony are being checked in connection with the new angle. Officers late in the day were watching his home. Vigorous efforts were being made to locate him for questioning. Meanwhile, other officers, particularly Detective Sergeants Yarrow and Mallheau, narcotic traffic experts, turned their attention to another new angle. They started yesterday afternoon to investigate several reports concerning 'dope' traffic in Hollywood and other supposed clews, which tend to indicate that visits of 'peddlers' of dope had been made in that vicinity. A report of a supposed threat made on the night of the murder also was being run down by the officers. This report, made by a downtown business man to the police, was expected to set the officers on the trail of a man who is quoted as saying on the night Mr. Taylor was slain within a few minutes after Mabel Normand, film star, left the Taylor home, 'There will be a movie director show up missing in the morning.' ...Capt. Adams yesterday stated it is not impossible that Mr. Taylor was killed by a burglar, who seized upon the opportunity provided when Mr. Taylor escorted Miss Normand to her automobile to sneak in the house. The position of the bullet and the line of fire indicated shows, Capt. Adams said, that the assassin probably was crouching behind the door when Mr. Taylor entered...
1922-02-05	There were no women's tears at the inquest yesterday which determined that William Desmond Taylor came to his death at the hands of an assassin. The only sobs were contributed by Henry Peavey, negro valet and cook, who wailed aloud when he entered the inquest rooms at the Ivy Overholtzer undertaking rooms, where Coroner Nance conducted the hearing. ...Sobs interfered somewhat with Peavey's testimony. He knelt on the floor by the bier first and sobbed aloud and his wails were frequent during the entire hearing...His mourning sounded so much like a guffaw that many smiled, but there were tears in Peavey's eyes...
1922-02-05	Denver, Feb. 4--William Desmond Taylor, Los Angeles motion-picture director, may have been murdered by mistake due to his resemblance to a man hated by some underworld avenger. This opinion was given today by Judge Ben B. Lindsey when he learned of Taylor's death at the hands of an assassin. Judge Lindsey said Mr. Taylor told him of having been held all night by Denver police who believed he was a man much wanted. Mr. Taylor said his protestations of innocence caused him to be severely beaten by police clubs. The following morning, after he had established his identity, profuse apologies were extended, but he never learned the name of the man for whom he was mistaken. 'Was he murdered for revenge by some crook whom his double had betrayed?' Judge Lindsey asked. 'He may have been the image of some underworld character.'
1922-02-05	The most unfeigned astonishment was expressed yesterday throughout the entire local filmdom over the disclosures made regarding the dual role played in life by William Desmond Taylor, noted film director, who was shot Wednesday night. Both surprise and regret were the feelings expressed in the Mary Miles Minter household. Mrs. Julia B. Miles, Miss Minter's grandmother, said: 'Somehow my faith in human beings is a little shaken this morning because of all people with a shadowy past I would never have suspected Mr. Taylor. In fact I asked him once if he were a bachelor or a widower and he said 'I am a confirmed bachelor,' and as I believed him to be the very essence of truth I naturally felt shocked to learn he had a wife and child. 'My granddaughter, Miss Minter, looked on him as a child might regard a father. She is 19 and he was 55 [sic], and she is an impulsive child and when she heard of his death the other morning she rushed over there and cried all over the place without a thought of having her name dragged into the affair. 'We all liked him and admired him because he was so kind, because he was such a thorough gentleman and such a profound scholar. He was a man of moods, however, sometimes becoming very depressed and gloomy, and one winter when he was directing a picture of Miss Minter's which was being filmed in Boston, he became so despondent that my grand-daughter nicknamed him 'Desperate-Desmond,' just in jest, you know. 'Miss Minter has only seen Mr. Taylor once in the last five months and I was with her at the time. We were driving up Broadway and Mr. Taylor passed us in his car and my grand-daughter said, 'Oh, Mr. Taylor has repainted his car,' and I said, 'Yes, I suppose that man who stole his things tore the car all to pieces. Mr. Taylor stopped and we passed a few friendly greetings with him, but we did not mention any of his troubles with the man who had robbed him, or touch on any of his personal affairs, for while our friendship with him was pleasant and cordial, it was by no means intimate.' Claire Windsor expressed surprise that her name had been connected in any way with that of the dead man. 'I had never been out but once in my life with Mr. Taylor, ' said Miss Windsor, 'and that time it was arranged without my knowledge. Mr. Moreno invited me to join a party of four at the Ambassador and Mr. Taylor was the escort he provided for me. He seemed an extremely reserved and diffident man, but very courteous and dignified, and I liked him.'
1922-02-05	William Desmond Taylor, the slain movie director, was well known in this city in 1908. But he was not known as Taylor. He was William Cunningham Deane-Tanner, expert in antiques in those days, and he moved in good society, was well supplied with money from a mysterious source in Ireland and eventually was married to Ethel May Harrison of one of the Floradora Sextettes. Without a word of explanation, according to the woman who was then his wife, he disappeared in 1908. The first Mrs. Deane-Tanner now is the wife of E. L. C. Robins, owner of Robins Restaurant and other hostelries. Mrs. Robins gave out a statement yesterday explaining her marriage and the desertion and her subsequent discovery that her former husband had popped up in the motion picture colony at Hollywood, Cal., and became famous the world over as William Desmond Taylor. She says his murder shocked her and the daughter he abandoned. 'I married, in December, 1901, Mr. William Cunningham Deane-Tanner of Dublin, Ireland,' the statement said. 'He disappeared in October, 1908. We could assign no reason for his disappearance except possibly aphasia. 'In 1912 I got a decree of divorce in the State of New York and was awarded the custody of my only child, Ethel Daisy Deane-Tanner, now 19. 'In August, 1914, I married Edward L. C. Robins. Two and a half weeks later I discovered that William Desmond Taylor had been Mr. Deane-Tanner. I have no further statement which possibly could be of interest. 'The news of Mr. Deane-Tanner's death was a great shock to my daughter and me.' At her home in Orienta Point, Mamaroneck, last night, Mrs. Robins said she held no resentment for the way Deane-Tanner treated her. She presented excuses for him, saying he suffered lapses of memory during the time they lived together and that not long before he vanished, in 1908, he was stricken with facial neuralgia and frequently was in an agony of pain. She does not believe he knew what he was doing the morning he left their home and she supposes that a mental ailment can be held to account for his failure to return. Just as dramatic as were many of the chapters in Deane-Tanner, or William Desmond Taylor's, life was Mrs. Robins's discovery in 1919 that he was still living. With her daughter Mrs. Robins went to a motion picture theater in this city one night. They chose the theater without knowing what picture it was featuring. For several hundred feet of film it was just a new picture as far as they were concerned, but suddenly the hero appeared. Mrs. Robins sank back in her seat too startled to speak. He daughter stood up. For the laughing face on the screen was that of the long missing Deane- Tanner a little changed--somewhat older looking they decided when they finally settled back to wait for the hero's next entry. They sat through the picture and then saw it again and learned that the man whose face they knew was acting and directing movies under the name of William Desmond Taylor. Mrs. Robins said last night that her daughter would not be satisfied until she had written to Taylor. Taylor answered her letter and the two continued a correspondence which grew with each month until finally Taylor of the movies came back to New York to try to make some amends for his conduct as Deane-Tanner, the negligent father. Taylor never explained why he had changed his name. But Mrs. Robins said he met her and the daughter on at least one occasion and expressed a desire to try to make good for his failure. He spent money lavishly on the girl, giving money and other presents to her and encouraging her to study. The love of the beautiful in art that appears to have impressed his Hollywood friends cropped up in his talks with his daughter, and he ultimately prevailed upon her to enter an art school in this city. She is now studying there. Mrs. Robins emphatically denied that her former husband ever married after he deserted her. She said she met him last August and remembers distinctly that he said he never had remarried and never would. His daughter, she quoted him as saying, was the only pal he wanted. According to Mrs. Robins, Deane-Tanner was of a family well known in Ireland--listed among the landed gentry or the peers, she wasn't sure which. His father was a Major in the British army, and he came of a line of men whose names have figured in British history. She said he was prepared for the army at one of the great British universities--Oxford or Cambridge--and that he was about to start for the military school when his health failed. He was sent to the United States, he told her, so that he might recover. Mrs. Robins said she remembers that he told her once he had two sisters and one brother, and she met soon after their marriage a man she supposes was the brother. The stories of drugs and drinking, Mrs. Robins thinks, are untrue, because while Deane-Tanner was her husband he used liquor but sparingly and always criticized those who did not know how to handle it. Before her marriage to Taylor--or Deane-Tanner, as he called himself then--Mrs. Robins was Miss Ethel May Harrison. No one could be found who could explain fully Deane-Tanner's early movements in New York, but it was established that he came from Ireland with considerable money and a habit of spending it freely. He caused some attention in sporting circles, talked about his yachts abroad, and eventually, it was said, became a familiar figure on the float of the Larchmont Yacht Club. He made friends easily and held them. Suddenly he began talking of previous visits here, and it was said yesterday, by men who knew him but do not want their names coupled with his in the murder mystery, that he let it be known he had played in roles opposite Fanny Davenport. Mrs. Robins would not say where she and her first husband made their home or where they were living when he disappeared, but it was established through friends that he dropped out of sight in 1908 a few weeks after the Vanderbilt cup races.
1922-02-05	SLAIN MOVIE MAN HAD CAREER HERE; DESERTED HIS WIFE Taylor Is Revealed as W. C. Deane-Tanner, who Disappeared in 1908. WIFE IS NOW MRS. ROBINS She and Daughter Later Recognized Him in Film and Met Him on His Way to Europe. BROTHER ALSO LEFT FAMILY Los Angeles Inquest Results In Formal Verdict Without Hearing All Actresses Called. The murder of William Desmond Taylor in Hollywood, which was found yesterday by a Coroner's jury at Los Angeles to be the work of an unknown assassin, has served to bring to light the past life of himself and his brother in New York, where they were known under their rightful name of Deane-Tanner, and to reveal curious coincidences in the lives of both men. Both apparently abandoned their wives and children and vanished, the elder to turn up as Taylor, the moving picture director of unusual ability, and the younger to remain a mystery. Taylor was William Cunningham Deane-Tanner, a member of a good family of Dublin, Ireland. He married Miss Ethel May Harrison, a member of the  original Florodora company, whose right name was Hamilton. She was the daughter of a broker. Taylor abandoned her in 1908, and in 1914 she got a divorce and married Edward L. C. Robins, Treasurer of the S. M. Robins Company, which conducts a number of restaurants in the financial district and owns Delmonico's restaurant. When Mrs. Robins heard yesterday that bits of her former husband's past life in New York were becoming known, and that her marriage to him was known, she issued a statement in which she definitely established that Taylor, the murdered moving picture man, and Deane-Tanner, the former dealer in English antiques on Fifth Avenue, were the same person. "I married in December, 1901, Mr.  William Cunningham Deane-Tanner of Dublin, Ireland," said Mrs. Robins. "He disappeared in October 1908. We could assign no reason for his disappearance except possible aphasia. In 1912 I got a decree of divorce in the State of New York, and was awarded the custody of my only child, Ethel Daisy Deane-Tanner, now 19, in August 1914, I married Edward L. C. Robins. "Two and a half years ago I discovered that William Desmond Taylor had been Mr. Deane-Tanner. I have no further statement which possibly could be of interest. The news of Mr. DeaneTanner's death was a great shock to my daughter and me." Wife Absolves Him of Blame. Mrs. Robins was seen later at her home in Mamaroneck, a cottage about two miles south of the station, and talked more freely about her first husband, whom she absolved of all blame in leaving her because she thought he was mentally upset at the time. She also revealed that she had met him in New York for a few moments before he sailed for Europe about a year ago, and that her daughter had been in constant correspondence with him. Mrs. Robins is an attractive woman. She was dressed in a dark blue silk frock and wore a golden ornament on a black silk cord about her neck. She is a woman of charm and courtesy, terms which she applied to Deane-Tanner in describing him. The exact reason for Deane-Tanner leaving his home has always been a mystery to her, and she never asked him about it after her daughter began to  write to him or when she saw him at the pier. "It was just like a man pickup his hat to leave the house," was the way she put it. He left all his clothes, his money, and sufficient means to provide for her. He had occasionally suffered severely from neuralgia and she thought this had affected his mind. He once told his daughter that he had had a lapse of memory for a year after he left New York. The way in which Mrs. Robins learned that her first husband was not dead was dramatic. She and her daughter  were at a moving picture theatre on3 day two and a half years ago when suddenly Deane-Tanne appeared on the sereen as one to of the principal characters in the play. She recognized him immediately, although he was without the mustache which he had worn when she was married to him. "That is your father," she exclaimed to her daughter, and her daughter then recognized him also from a photograph she had seen. They saw that he was using the name William Desmond Taylor and the daughter wrote to him in care of the moving picture company in whose productions he was appearing. He answered his daughter's letter, and they kept up a regular correspondence. He once came to New York, she said, and met his daughter. They had a long talk together. He was delighted to see her as she was to see him. He told his daughter then that he was not remarried, and Mrs. Robins says she is sure from what he said that he was telling the truth. He intimated that he would leave his property to his daughter in his will, Mrs. Robins said. Deane-Tanner was of a fine old Irish family, Mrs. Robins said, the son of a Major in the British Army. He was a member of the British Public Schools association, which comprises alumni from the famous public schools of Eton and Harrow and was also an English university man. He had two brothers and two sisters, but Mrs. Robins knew only the one brother. Mrs. Robins said that she got her diorce on statutory grounds in New York, but that she did not name a corespondent. She said that she had no complaint to make of him, and that she could not imagine how any one could have had sufficient cause to kill him. In his dealings with others he was always considerate, she said, and every one liked him. The daughter is now attending an art school in New York, but Mrs. Robins could not say which one because she does not want her daughter brought into the case. She was asked if she could go to California, and said that would all depend on circumstances. Brother 's Record Uncovered. The murder of Taylor which led to the discovery of his first marriage and his abandonment of his wife, a chapter which Mrs. Robins had hoped was forgotten, also curiously enough resulted in uncovering the past history of his brother Dennis Deane-Tanner, who also married in New York and left his wife when she was recovering from a severe illness in the Adirondacks, and his two children. Both men had been connected with antique shops and both had vanished so completely that their New York friends never again came in contact with them. The picture of Taylor as a man austere and scholarly, who paid little attention to women, as drawn by some of his moving-picture associates. was  also shattered, for there are persons in the city who, while admitting that both the Deane-Tanners had been men of culture and pleasing personalities, said that their affairs with women had been such that no one who knew them could help noticing them. Just when the Deane-Tanners came to this country was not definitely estabished yesterday but it is believed that William, the elder brother, came here originally about thirty years ago while very young and went to Runnymede, a settlement near Harper, Kan., estabisied by Ned Turnley in 1887 or 1888 for emittance men-the impecunious sons of English society. There was a young man named Tanner in the colony for a short time, and old residents of Harper said yesterday that they remembered him, and that he left the colony in a short time and went back to England or Ireland. He later returned to this country but did not go back to Runnymede. The next heard of Tanner was when he married Miss Harrison in 1901, and when he later became Vice President of the English Antique Shop, conducted by A. J. Crawford, at 240 or 246 Fifth Avenue, between Twenty-seventh and Twenty-eighth Streets. His wife was known as a very accomplished woman, who had been well educated by her father when he was well to do and was a planist of some ability. Deane-Tanner was handsome and gallant, popular with all who knew him. He was active in the affairs of the Larchmont Yacht Club between 1904 and 1908, when he disappeared, and was a member of the Art Committee. Drank Heavily Before Disappearance. He began to drink quite heavily shorty before his disappearance, and it was thought by those who knew him that he was unhappy. A few days before he disappeared he went to the Vanderbilt Cup race on Long Island and it was said yesterday by his associates of those days than he started on a "spree" that wound up in the old Continental Hotel, which in those days was on Broadwav at Nineteenth Street. He sent to his office for $600 to be sent to him quickly. It was delivered to him at the hotel and he was never seen again in New York. A few years of Deane-Tanner's life drop out of the story here, and he next turned up on the Pacific Coast. He is supposed to have wandered up to Alaska, where he became ill in Nome, and later to have found his way back to San Francisco. He was down and out then, a wreck of the former handsome man who sold women expensive antiques and played around the yacht club. He had been friendly in New York with the husband of Eleanor Gordon, an actress, and they found him one day in San Francisco, where he was just out of hospital. They sent him to Los Angeles to get his health back, supplied him with money, and when he was well again got him work with a moving picture company. He acted a little, became a director, and after that his success was rapid. For two years during the war he was an officer in the Canadian Army. When he was shot he was in the position of having his productions featured under his name in stead of that of the star who played in them. Dennis Deane-Tanner was much the same type of man. He was younger and had served in the British Army as Lieutenant during the Boer war. He came to New York after his brother had married, and also went into the antique business, being associated with A. S. Vernay on East Forty-fifth Street. He was manager there and was looked upon as the counterpart in courtesy and culture of his brother. He married Miss Ada Brennan in 1907, and had two children, and at the time he disappeared lived at 247 West 101th Street. He was a vigorous, athletic man and was a member of the New York Athletic Club. Dennis Deane-Tanner 's wife became ill, and went to the Adirondacks to recover, leaving her children with her husand and her mother. Vernay returned from Europe the day before Dennis disappeared, and his manager met him and went with him to the shop to discuss business. That was the last Mr. Vernay saw of him. The next morning Dennis kissed his children and left the house in good spirits. He never retumed. Search for Dennis in Vain. Mrs. Deane-Tanner came back from the mountains and with the help of the police conducted a long search for her husband without success. So did an insurance company which had insured his life. His accounts were in good shape, and there was nothing to account for his disappearance, unless it was that he craved more freedom to follow his own desires. From time to time rumors came back to the Vernay shop that Dennis had changed his name and gone into the moving picture business. What started these rumors nobody knew yesterday, they were the more remarkable because until Taylor was killed none of his New York associates knew that the moving picture man was the man who had left the City in 1908. There was some speculation yesterday as to whether Taylor had sent for his brother and persuaded him to alter his life, as he himself had done. If Dennis did go into moving pictures, he changed his name so completely that a search of books on the moving picture industry failed to reveal a man who would suggest the former New Yorker. The possibility that Dennis DeaneTanner did actually drop out of life more completely than his brother is suggested by the later connection between William and his brother's wife. She went to Monrovia, Cal., where she has relatives, and has been living at 426 Lennon or Lemon Avenue. A search of the dead man 's papers showed that he had been giving her a monthly allowance, which would indicate that he was as ignorant as she of his brother's whereabouts; or, it was suggested, he may have been acting as his brother's agent in transferring to her money for her support.   
1922-02-05	...Miss Minter was not at the inquest, which was held this morning; but she was represented by counsel. She had known the dead man well. She was hysterical when she learned of his death. 'It was terrible,' she said. 'I rushed at once to my mirror and looked at my face. I was appalled. I kept the expression and hurried to mamma. ''Mamma,' I cried, 'did you ever see this expression on my face before.' ''No,' she said; 'it is perfect. Frozen horror! You've never done it before.''...
1922-02-05	--Henry Peavey, negro, who described himself as 'Mr. Taylor's valet,' was a conspicuous figure at the inquest over the body of his former master here this morning. Dressed in a natty check suit, Peavey arrived early and was the center of several groups of curiosity seekers. Just before the inquest began he asked permission to see the body. He was led to the room where the body of the famous film director lay. Peavey approached the body and then broke down. He cried for more than a minute. Then he walked around the corpse several times. 'He looks just like he did many times when I would go to wake him up in the morning to give him his medicine--just so natural,' he said, tears streaming down his face. A few minutes later Peavey took his seat in the inquest room, having mastered his emotions.
1922-02-05	Mabel Normand Reenacts Scene in Tavlor's Rooms: Inquest Suddenly Halted   Action Taken as Police Precaution Jealousy and Revenge Still Motives on Which Authorities Are Working Mystery Deepened by Fact Slain Man Lived Under Two Names. Brother said to have Disappeared in 1912.   Loss Angeles. Feb. 4 (By the Associted Press. The force of detectives investigating the slaying of William D. Taylor, motion picture director, formerly known as William Cunningham Deane-Tanner, accompanied by Miss Mabel Normand, film actress, late today paid a visit to the house where Taylor was shot to death. Miss Normand, at the request of the deterlives, reenacted the scene at the Tay lor apartments Wednesday night when she called there and left shortly before the time the police say the tragedy occurred. Miss Normand said she was in the apartments about 45 minutes. all the time being passed in the livingroon where Taylor 's body was found the next morning. She pointed out the positions of the various pieces of furniture in the room and indicated where she and Taylor conversed. Taylor walked with her to her automobile and conversed with her chauffer and herself for a few moments, she explained further, leaving the front door of his apartments open. His only servant had left about 15 minutes before, to be gone for the night. A check was being made tonight upon the movements of several persons Wednesday night. it was stated. at police headiuarters, at least one of these being a man connected will the motion picture industry. it also was stated that an important witness had been located and might be quesioned tonight.   Allus Deepens Mystery The mystery surrounding the murher of Taylor was deepened today by the discovery that he was formerly known as William Cunningham DeaneTanner. The inquest held today lasted less than 45 minutes and resulted in an open verdict, the jury declaring Taylor came to his death from a gunshot wound inflicted by an unknown peran with homicidal intent. Practically the only new developsent in the inquest testimony was that the bullet which ended Taylor 's he ranged upward after entering the body on the rear of the left side about  ? inches above the hip and lodged near the shoulder. This indicated, according to detectives, the slayer fired from a reclining position or that Tayor was bending over when the shot was fired.   Mabel Normand Testifies. Miss Mabel Normand was the only one of a number of motion picture actors and actresses subpoenaed who was called to the stand. She testified he called upon Taylor Wednesday night, leaving at 7:45, or about fifteen minutes before a shot was heard by he neighbors. Mrs. Douglas MacLean, one of those who told of hearing the shoot was at the inquest, but was not called to the stand. A detective, however, testified Mrs. MacLean told him at after she heard the shot she went her door and looked across a court and saw a man standing at Taylor 's door. The detective named two others who, he said, told him they heard a shot. The coroner 's jury asked him if by gave any explanatien why the made no investigation at the time, He applied they said they thought the and might have been made by an exploding tire, The deceased was referred to as Taylor" throughout the quest. Search for the person described by Mrs. MacLean and for Edward F Sands, former butler and secretary for Taylor, continued. and the police can down numerous fruitless ciues was admitted for the first time by the investigators that Sands is believed to be in or near Los Angeles. had been sought for several months on a grand larceny charge. Investigators said they had the word of a witness they believed unimpeachable that Sands was in this city last Tuesday.   Things Sands has Clue. The police said they believed Sands. also known as Edward Fitz Stravamore, was in concealment because of his fear of having to face the grand larceny charge. They said they had established almost conclusively that was in Loss Angeles a few days ago, and they were also sure that he did not left since his last known ovements were traced. They said! they were not preferring additional: charges against Sands, but that they believed an interview with him would  assist them in clearing away the story. The investigation today. it was said, was devoted largely to the subject of motive, The police have been: from the beginning of the opinion that, Taylor was slain for revenge. at it was admitted that up to late today it had not been determined at any one entertained an animos  ly. for Taylor of such a degree as would appear to be an incentive to I murder. The possibility that jealousy might have been the cause of the saying was still receiving attention. it was declared. The discovery that Taylor had once gone by another name several years ago, during a residence in New York was received by the police with much interest, and it was said that this might prove an important element in the case. Inspection of the Taylorr residence was completed by finger-print experts. who announced Hky had found ne impressions of her clues.   allet at ingsest. The bullet which was taken from taylor 's body was produced at the inquest, then returned to detectives who are endeavoring to learn its history. The missile was found practicallly intact and retained its shape. LA County Autopsy Surgeon Wagner said, to its not having struck  bone during its passage through Taylors body. The bullet was declared none of unusual type, a distinguishing feature being a groove around if circumference near the base. Funeral services for Taylor will be held Tuesday afternoon in a local church, the Motion Picture Directors Association announced. Taylor will be buried in his uniform of a captain in the British army, which he wore during the world war, and military Shors will be paid by other British Eterans living in Loss Angeles. it His said. Douglas AacLean. film actor. and H wife, who heard the fatal shot him their home adjoining that of aylor, were the first of the sumdbned witnesses to arrive at the inRest. others called by the coroner to testify included Mabel Normand. dry Miles Minter and Edna Purvirate, motion picture actresses: Jesse .Lasky, vice president of the FaAOus Players -Lasky organization. of "which Taylor was director -general to of features: Charles Eyton, general manher of the West Coast Studios of what corporation Eyton testified that he had known ylor for many years as "William asmond Taylor," born in Ireland. and a wisower. He said he had been Bhed to Taylor 's house Thursday burning by reports that Taylor was bad. and was informed that TayOf had succumbed to a hemorrhage  Tnsists on Exsiilnatioz. He insisted upon an examination. "which revealed that death a it gased by a bullet wound. The room the no signs of a struggle, and By Of said it appeared that Taylor have in shot from behind Dr. A. C. Wagner, county autops! digeon, testified that an autopsy idwed the bulle: had traveled up Shared. Mabel Normand testified that she ISited Taytor Wednesday evening, taining to minutes. and that Harly Eazey. the nagro house servant, left Sminutes before she did. She said ATior escorted her to her miotor ear waved to her as she was driven a police investigation thus far has  bfgaled no persons who saw Taylor is like after this moment. Deazey testified to finding the body atsday morning. He said the room as just as he left it the night before. he exemption of an overturned HHfr. No jeweis or articles were disbed and a diamond ring was on Flor 's finger, he testified.   Repeat Mrs. MeLean 's Story. Patroiman C. H. Liegler testified i at Mr. Douglas MaeLean informed did Thursday morn. ng. when he was gHied to the scene, that she had heard shot about s ociock Wednesday Ckning. and, from her door saw s an standing outside the door of Aafior 's home. The man looked a Of she said, and he then turned an a afhed away. She went! back, into Of house, believing that the nose Right not have been a shot foroner Nace then announced that afficient evidence had been offered place he case in the hands if the Fbner s jury and excused the other Tnesses. The sudden close was for bfice purposes, it was said. in order He to interfere with the investigaSee. ToNTINYTn ON THTRD FACE.   MOTION PICTURE DIRECTOR WHO WAS MURDERED AT LOS ANGELES AND 'ACTRESS WHO WAS ONE OF FIRST TO VISIT SCENE OF CRIME   MABEL NORMAND REENACTS. SCENE IN TAYLORS ROOMS CONTINUED FROM FIRST PAGE. Claire Windsor, motion picture actress, today revealed a threat by Taylor against Sands. She told of accompanying Taylor to a hotel party within a week before his death, She said Taylor was talking of the rob bery of certain jewels, which the police and Taylor attributed to Sands. Miss Windsor said that Taylor in this connection declared., I ever lay my hands on Sands I will kill him. Air. Taylor made no secret of of to kill his valet, she continued, "as he told a number of people he would kill him if he ever got his hands on him. Miss Windsor said that she has "known Taylor, a long time, but never very well. That a woman was involved in the murder was the theory advanced by "Sheriff William Traeger. of Los An geles county "From what I have been able to learn," he said, "it appears to me that one woman and one man are responsible for the, victims death. Then woman supplied the incentive and the man did the slaying.   Sands seen Recently. Sands was reported to the police having been seen in Los Angeles on Tuesday, the day preceding the mur der, and on Wednesday evening, the night of the murder. A man whose name the pelice withheld is reported to have informed detectives that he conversed with Sands on Tuesday, and that at the time Sands declared with an oath "I'm here to get Bill Taylor."  A Woman  declared to have seen Sands on Wednesday evening in the vicinity of the scene of the crime, indications that Sands way, as Strathmore and wanted byauthorities for "desertion from mili tary service, with irregular accounts have tarned police investigation fur ther into his past history. Brother Also Disappeared. The dual existence of Taylor may be paralleled by the mystery sur rounding his brother, Dennis DeaneTanner, and the police, are anxious to  ascertain just what Sands may know in this connection. While Taylor came into existence in 1908. when the slain man mysteriously disappeared isfrom New York. where he was known "as an art connoisseur under the name " me Desmond DeaneTanner. His brother is reported to have diesappeared likewise Mrs. Ada DeaneTTanner, wife of they brother. is living at Monr here. She said that in in hand. a well-todo interior decoratow. Dennis Base Deane home for His office in New York and she had not seen or heard from being said Since. .A Fire in fear of death, during thenlast few days of his" ayistene be to the dramatic mystery of the dusb existence of Taylor. He mentioned to a least one person, police as any as the a arehe had premeition of deaths   Tayler Married Secretly. " And Lett Wife, Friends say: Chieago, Feb. A (By the Associates d ! Press.)hapters in the life of Will-. iam Haylor, motion picture directore is who was slain in LosAngeles Wed-) nesday night avere described here toI day by friends who said, they knew his SECT.   prior to Toos, as William DeaneT manner, an art connoisseur. Taylom "as manager for a groniinent Newman  York firm of art and antiite furniBy ture dealers: and had-a wide cireld ref friends, it was said. in of, let bsderetly married Miss Ethel" Mayn offarrison, a member, of the originaTs tYforodora company. and they had an elhild, IEthel, now It years old, acbedrding he Chicago friends. In foos he suddenly disappeared in splysterious fashion and his wife waste hashable to give any ciew to his wherein Yabouts or to assign any reason fopl This actions, and several years latefl Yobtained a divorce and since has married died a prominent New York merchantin according to this source.   said He was Shanghaied, Lxhout two years later Tanner surli pfised several old acquaintances by lailling at their homes in Los Angelesy bad is reported to have said he had been shanghaied at night in lower aBpoadway, New York, and taken ahoard a sailing vessel bound around ACape Horn. He said he reached a Ypbrt on the Pacifie northwest coast fsaveral months later, went to ground Ffdr the transcontinental railroad and hsibsequently sought employment in a famine. after which he went to Loss Angeles. "Tanner, however, is said to have shown a reluctance in discussing same portions of his adventures and adid not explain why he failed to return to his family and friends. He never was known as Tanner in Los  angeles. in 1910 he left Los Angeles, and it was assumed he was going to British columbia to resume railroad work. title had not been successful in the afdrmer city. He returned to Loss Anhgeles about IoIS, and soon obtained " aposition with a motion picture concern at Long Beach. Was Stock Actor. To friends he explained that he fmlayed in theatrical stock companies daring his absence from Los Angeles, liabd this stage experience they beddikve, was the foundation of his sucWaAss in the motion picture field. For a year or more he was coninected with the Balboa Film coma any in Long each. and. advanced did a directorship in important companies in Hollywood. His life since ffHen, with his advancement to the (Rdrefront as a director, is a matter of sdreen history   Wife Tells of Her Married Life With Slain Directory New York, Feb. 4 (By the Associated Press.Mrs. E. L. C. Robins, former" wife of. William. Desmond Taylor, slain Los Angeles motion picture director, tonight told of her married life with the murdered man, who, she said, then went by. his real name, William Cunningham Deane-Tanner, She said she could throw no light on the mystery of his death. At her, home in Mamaroneek, N. Y. Mrs. Robins issued the following, formal cabatemes it the the ""I married in December 1901, William Cunningham Deane-Tanner, of Dublin, Ireland:, He disappeared in October, 1908. We' could assign, no   reason for his disappearance except possibly amnesia. In 1912 I got a decree of divorce in the State of New York, and was awarded the custody of my only child, Ethel Daisy DeaneTanner, now 19. In August, 1914. I married Edward L. C. Robins. Two and a half years ago I discovered that William Desmond Taylor had been Mr. Deane-Tanner. I have no further statement which possibly could be of interest. The news of Mr. DeaneTanner 's death was a great shock to my daughter and me, In 1908 Tanner was said to have  withdrawn his money from a bank, telephoned his wife that she would never, see him again, though explaining it was not suicide that he contemoplated, and vanished. For months thereafter he was sought by the police in America and by Scotland Vrad tin England. Mrs. Robins said she had not heard whether her former husband had married again-was not sure, in fact, whether he knew that ,she, had di vorced, him.
1922-02-05	DECLARES TAYLOR MAN WITHOUT FOES   Film Actress, Former Fiancee Gives Out Personal Incidents. in Slain Director's Life.   DAUGHTERS ADDRESS FOUND   Safety Deposit Box Reveals Estate of $60,000 Recent Suspicious Incidents Exposed.   Los Angeles. Calif, Feb. 4, By the Associated Press. Neva  Gerber. film actress, who said she had once been engaged to marry William Desmond Taylor, slain motion picture director, said the engagement had been broken off because They "both believed it an unsuitabie match, "I have never known a finer, better man than Mr. Taylor," said Miss Gerber. "He was the soul of honor, a man of exceptional culture. education and refinement, but possessing a reserve which very few were permitted to penetrate. "So far as I know he did not have an enemy in the world, although he mentioned casually fights he had on his various trips to the Klondike.   Nursed Smallpox Victims "He had led a most eventful life. and he told me on one occasion, of being in a village in the far North when. it was scourged by smalipox. He went about nursing the inhabitants. inciuding priest. The priest fell a victim and Mr. Taylor nursed him back to health, Then, Mr. Taylor caught the disease and after a hard battle, the priest nursed him back, tohealth. "In spite of this experience. he often longed for the far North and he used to talk about it in the rests between scenes in pictures. He told me he had made two fortunes and spent both of them upon this return from Alaska. "He often spoke of his mother, then in Londonand his little daughter. He always termed the latter a 'child' and was planning to bring her to Los Angeles, It was my understanding his former wife was living in New York.. I always assurhed he was di vorced, for had he not been he would not, I believe, have asked me to marry him. We were engaged for some time but broke off the match two years ago whenhe concluded were were not suited to each other.   No known Enemies. This terrible affair is all the more mysterions because it was a common saying among the studios and in Hollywood generally that Mr Taylor had not an enemy in the world. "He may have made an enemy in the past who nursed a grudge through the years which finally resulted in his murder be he never  gave the slightest indication to me of  having any foe." official search of Taylors safety deposit box in bank here, disclosed a letter to him from the daughter, Ethel Daisy Taylor, postmarked at Mamoreneck, N. C. The public administrator also stateed he had found her exact address in Taylors apartments, but was keeping it from the press at the girl's request. This was contained in a telegram received here today fron the girl in answer to one from him.   Daughter Sole Heir. It is believed the director 's entire estate, valued at approximately $60,000 as revealed by a search of the deposit box, will go to the daughter: The box also contained jewelry, believed to be worth about $1,500. The coroner began a search, for Taylors former wife. which., it. was said, might lead to England, Among reports given to the-police was one that, recently Taylor. solely ! for the purpose of obtaining. "atmosphere," had attenderl what they est sertbeal as twofor three "hoc". Parties, is where all but he, had either smoked opium or takensa alrug in some ferm.) In giving publicity to this latter report, the Les Angeles Examiner de-( cared "the possibility that the beginning of the tragedyshad its serting at one of these proseribed atfairs," was being considered.   Nuspicious incidents Helated. What the police regarded as sus-) picions circumstances concerning recent events in Taylor 's life, was told them by many persons. Theotore Kosloff, acter. told , of having been "on location" in the I country with Taylor about two weeks age. They were walking together. Sattenty from behind a ciump of wishes a man sprang toward Taylor. They feed each other for moment. wind when the stranger walked away. Taytor offered no explanation. Rosloff I said. Ted Tayior. "he directorss agent. hit met a ,"active, told of a reiephone "wit His chief: received last Monday.! The direetor hung "up the receiver if abruptly it was said. and when the he"" hang again two niihutes later. said "done": answer." Mrs is Garrew modist"." Sale day she" saw a man acting peculiarlyne any in the Taylor apartments the night the If director was shot, but shortiy after  might clock. the time tentatively fixed by! The" police as that or his death.   rcoaIN andA. A. Tomlinsen. an accountant was responsible partly for the declaration. That the real name of the butler Sands, was Strathmore, "I receognized, him from a picture sublisted in the Examiner,"" said Tomlinson "He was ,assigned to Co lumbus Barracks, Ohio. during the war. I was head of the finance de. hwrtment and as Sirathmore had been! a "Thief petty officer in the navy. asked that: he he transferred to me department. This was done, He is wanted for desertion. I met him in Loss Angeles. July (.-so. and notified the police, but he escaped. "Strathmore gave me 'a number he booles. In one I was able to make out the name of "hands, although an effort had been made to grase it. He his hand writing in qhe as the entry "C O. Perry P. le Berthon, 952 Fiftysecond street. Brooklyn NY   
1922-02-05	Slain Director was Three Years Miner in Colorado   Denver, Colo., Feb. 4.-William Desmond Taylor spent three years as a mining prospector in Colorado, according to Fred E. Carroll, of Denver former State mining conmissioner, of Colorado. Mr. Carroll described Taylor as having been of very "mysterious" turn of mind, talking of his own affairs very little. A Denver newspaper man who visited Taylor last year in Los Angeles, recalled tonight that Taylor had relayed to a party of friends at his studio that he was born in Ireland, left home to follow the stage and finally came to America when 18 years old.  According to the newspaper writer, Taylor said he went first to Harper, Kans.  Later he returned to his home, where his father, upon receiving a promise from young Taylor that he would not follow the stage, gave Taylor a college education. After graduating in engineering, Taylor, however again came to America in his hope to "get rich quick," he told his friends. According to the newspaper writer, he came to Colorado and prospected near Ouray and Silverton. Later he said he made several trips to Alaska in search of "gold and adventure." 
1922-02-06	(from an interview with actress Winifred Kingston)..Miss Kingston threw some very interesting light on Sands' career, details gleaned, she said, from various conversations with Taylor. 'While Edward Knoblock was living at Mr. Taylor's home [during June/July 1921 when Taylor was in Europe], ' she said, 'Sands went down to a well known department store in town and bought at various times a considerable amount of lingerie. I understood he gave these to a girl he was interested in--a very young creature who lived at home with her mother. All of this he charged to Mr. Taylor's account, a matter which greatly enraged the director when he returned from abroad. ...'During this same period, when Mr. Knoblock was a guest of Mr. Taylor's and was supposed to pay for nothing, Sands presented the English author with a bill amounting to some hundreds of dollars for groceries he had used while at the house. Mr. Knoblock, being a gentleman and not wanting a row, however little he understood the matter, paid the bill. When Mr. Taylor returned he was naturally dumbfounded. 'On another occasion Sands did another peculiar thing. Mr. Taylor had two thermos bottles around the house, neither of any particular value. There were many other things Sands easily could have stolen of more value. But he took one of these bottles to present to some girl. Her mother did not understand the act at all and didn't want the girl to take it. 'Most unusual of Sands' actions, however, was a document he once drew up. 'One day, to show his affection and regard for Mr. Taylor, he wrote, in his own handwriting, a sort of servile contract, in which he said that he would be Mr. Taylor's servant for life and would always be his slave. 'Mr. Taylor told me about the document and laughed. I don't know what ever happened to the paper, but Sands apparently took it seriously. 'All of this led me to believe that the man was mentally deranged and he is the only man I can think of who might have killed Mr. Taylor.'
1922-02-06	On the desk of William Desmond Taylor stood one framed photograph. In his entire bungalow, filled with photos of celebrities and friends, mostly women, this picture alone was framed--and framed beautifully in naturally finish hardwood. It was the likeness of Winifred Kingston, film star. 'Engaged ever?' Miss Kingston was asked yesterday in her beautiful West Hollywood home. 'Ridiculous!' 'Mr. Taylor and I were the best of friends--nothing more. I knew him perhaps as intimately as any woman friend could, but there had never been a whisper or thought of love between us. Certainly not. 'It so happened that both Mr. Taylor and I were English--that is, he was Irish, but a British subject and educated as an Englishman and with the British army traditions behind him and his family. 'We Britishers are naturally reserved and don't usually tell intimate things to others. But early in the history of the films, Mr. Taylor and I became acquainted, back in the 'Balboa' days. As I was English we became somewhat more friendly than most and at various times he told me many things, perhaps, which everyone did not know. 'For example, he told me about having been married and having a child, and also about having been divorced. I never thought anything in particular about it and don't even remember the occasion of his telling me--whether I asked him or whether he volunteered the information. 'But any number of us in the film colony knew his and those who didn't know had to reason to--they weren't the sort of people or weren't close enough to Mr. Taylor to be told. I don't see why any one is surprised to learn about that. 'It's not unusual, either, that he should have had my photograph on his desk. He directed me in any number of pictures and for years we have been good friends. I gave him that picture for Christmas one year and he probably had it framed as a matter of course. 'As a matter of fact, one is more liable to frame a picture of an old, though platonic friend, that a picture of one in whom he is but momentarily interested. 'I never knew, of course, that he had changed his name on coming out here, but that fact doesn't seem to be important. 'As a matter of fact, I don't see where any of this old history is important in the solution of the mystery of his death. I think everything points to this man Sands.' Miss Kingston threw some very interesting light on Sands' career, details gleaned, she said, from various conversations with Taylor. 'While Edward Knoblock was living at Mr. Taylor's home,' she said, 'Sands went down to a well known department store in town and bought at various times a considerable amount of lingerie. I understood he gave this to a girl he was interested in--a very young creature who lived at home with her mother. All of this he charged to Mr. Taylor's account, a matter which greatly enraged the director when he returned from abroad. 'Sands had frequently done shopping for him, but Mr. Taylor told me humorously that he would hardly have sent a servant to pick out ladies' underwear. 'During this same period, when Mr. Knoblock was a guest of Mr. Taylor's and was supposed to pay for nothing, Sands presented the English author with a bill amounting to some hundreds of dollars for groceries he had used while at the house. Mr. Knoblock, being a gentleman and not wanting a row, however little he understood the matter, paid the bill. When Mr. Taylor returned he was naturally dumbfounded. 'On another occasion Sands did another peculiar thing. Mr. Taylor had two thermos bottles around the house, neither of any particular value. There were many other things Sands easily could have stolen of more value, but he took one of these bottles to present to some girl. Her mother did not understand the act at all and didn't want the girl to take it. 'Most unusual of Sands' actions, however, was a document he once drew up. 'One day, to show his affection and regard for Mr. Taylor, he wrote, in his own handwriting, a sort of servile contract, in which he said that he would be Mr. Taylor's servant for life and would always be his slave. 'Mr. Taylor told me about the document and laughed. I don't know what every happened to the paper, but Sands apparently took it seriously. 'All of this led me to believe that the man was mentally deranged and he is the only man I can think of who might have killed Mr. Taylor.' Miss Kingston said that she could find no possible intimation or statement made by Taylor to her that might form the basis for a motive growing out of an old feud. Nothing of the kind was ever said to her, she stated.
1922-02-06	Baring in detail her entire acquaintance with William D. Taylor for the past seven years Miss Neva Gerber, his former fiancee, yesterday afternoon graphically told of his fits of utter despondency that gripped the dead man at times and of his many mysterious disappearances, for two and three weeks at a time continuing over a period of several years, and admitted that she had received thousands of dollars in checks from the dead director. 'At times Mr. Taylor would sink to such depths of despair, said Miss Gerber, 'that his whole body seemed racked as if in physical torture. He would walk the floor and wring his hands exclaiming, 'Why do I have to keep up this battle? Is it worth while to keep up this struggle of existence? With all of these odds against me is the struggle worth while?' and when I would ask him what he meant by these strange words he would say, 'Oh, my health is so bad--I have no stomach left--I can't eat anything,' but there were other times when he would say 'I have had bad news from home,' but he never told me just what the news was. 'There would be times just after he had finished directing a picture when he would say he was so nervous he would have to go away for awhile and that he was going out into the mountains where he could rest and would see no one. Sometimes he would be gone as long as three weeks and I would not hear from him, although he would telegraph from some nearby point just as he was leaving and just before his return. Once he told me that had been driving down from the Northern part of the State alone for three days and later when mentioning an incident of the trip he said 'the man who was with me in the car said this was a dangerous piece of road.' I said 'I thought you were alone,' and he very plausibly explained it was a man he had picked up and was giving a lift, and although I did not exactly have any suspicions about anything I often wondered about these trips. 'It is true that Mr. Taylor gave me three cars, first an old one that he had used and later two new ones which were purchased in my name. When he began giving me presents of jewelry, automobiles and--' Miss Gerber hesitated and blushed--'and money, we were engaged, we expected to be married as soon as I got my divorce and it did not seem anything out of the way to either of us. When we first began going together Mr. Taylor had less financial resources than I had myself. When we would go out to dinner together when I was first working with the Balboa Film Company we would many times pool all of our spare change and decide where we could afford to eat. 'He always said that I had been a square pal with him and when he began making really big money he seemed to think it was just the natural thing to divide what he had with me. When our engagement was broken off about two years ago we did not have any quarrel; there were not harsh words or even bitter feeling. After he came back from the army he seemed more melancholy and despondent than he had been before. He would even be irritable at times, so my mother said that as I had had such an unfortunate experience in my marriage to one man who was much older than myself that it was not wise to make another venture of the same kind. Both she and I talked to him about this and we decided to end the engagement. After that time I never went out with him. I did not see him for months at a time, although he frequently phoned, and he came to the house a few times. He was always just as pleasant to both my mother and myself as he had ever been, and he continued to make me little presents of money, by check, sometimes $75, sometimes $100. 'A little over a year ago I started my own company and put quite a bit of my own money into the venture and it has not brought returns as rapidly as I had expected. Some time about the 9th of January, 1922, I was talking to Mr. Taylor on the telephone and told him that things were in pretty much of a jam, and that I was in temporary financial straits, and he said he would let me have some money, and about the 11th day of the same month he sent me a check for $500. 'I have never kept any record of the amounts given me, but his generosity has continued over a number of years and I suppose his gifts would amount, all told, to several thousand dollars. Mr. Taylor used to depend on me to look after many things for him. It was I who found the house for him in which he was living at the time of his death, and when he and I were engaged and were going out together I would frequently stop there for a few minutes, but there was always a servant present. 'When Mr. Taylor frequently betrayed such an intimate knowledge of works of art of every description I would say to him, 'How did you learn so much about period furniture and tapestries and everything like that?' he would reply, 'Oh, I used to chum around with a man in New York who was an art collector and an authority on the subject and he taught me all I know.' And he would often refer casually to his life in New York. Sometimes, but very infrequently, he would speak of his people in England. He said he had a sister and a mother there and that his child was with his mother in England. When he returned from the war he told me that his sister's husband had been killed in battle and that both his mother and child had been killed in a German air raid over London. He never spoke of having a brother or a sister- in-law. 'Although I know of his former wife--he had described her to me as a very beautiful blonde--I never suspected that he had lived under a different name or that there was anything in his past which he needed or wished to conceal. Once when I was crying over something he became infuriated and told me never to do so again in his presence as it crazed him and rendered him so irresponsible he felt like striking a woman who cried. He then told me that his former wife's crying had been the thing which had made it impossible for him to live with her, but that is the only thing he ever said about their differences. 'But he frequently referred in a vague way to great sorrows he had had and of not making the most he might out of his life. I would try to cheer him up by telling him of what a wonderful director he had become in such a short time and that he had great fame and success ahead of him, and sometimes he would throw off his despairing mood but it began to return more and more frequently. I do not think the general public knew anything about this despondent side of him as he was a very silent and self-contained man. 'Because of his unhappy moods and his loneliness I had frequently begged him not to live alone, but to take a room at a club or a hotel but he said he could only work when entirely isolated and that he loved solitude. I had not seen him for several weeks previous to the murder and I have not the slightest conception or theory as to what was the motive or who was the perpetrator of so cruel a deed.'
1922-02-06	Los Angeles, Feb. 5--Once, in an expansive mood, William Desmond Taylor, film director, whose murder last Wednesday was one of the most mysterious ever recorded in Los Angeles, talked intimately with his chauffeur, Lester Wing. 'I never really loved but one woman,' Taylor declared to the Chinese, according to the latter's story, told yesterday. 'She was my stage partner. I was engaged to her. But she died before we could be married--and I'll never marry another woman.' Wing was in Taylor's employ for several years before the film director deserted the land of make-believe to take part in the real, hard game of war. 'Mr. Taylor was a fine man,' Wing said. 'He was very good to his servants. And brave. Why, on the way to Bakersfield one time, a car sped around a curve ahead of us, threatening to run us off the road, but Mr. Taylor never flinched. 'Also, he trusted people too much, at times, I think. Once he trusted anyone it was forever. Many times he sent me to deposit money in the bank-- $1,500, $2,000, and sometimes as high as $3,000 in money and checks. 'Once a lady from New York sent him a telegram asking to help her. She was in need. He sent me to the telegraph office with $200 in cash to send to her. 'He taught me lots of things. Anything I ever wanted to know he would explain and make me understand.' The only woman with whom Taylor was friendly at the time of Wing's service was Neva Gerber, according to the Chinese. She was with Taylor several times a week. Two or three times a week it was Taylor's habit to call for his car, a beautiful gray one, and take a long ride alone. Often, Wing said, he would leave the car with the chauffeur and talk long, solitary walks. 'He would walk alone, eat alone, cook alone--everything alone,' the former chauffeur said. 'The only time he would want to see me would be to make appointments.' The high esteem in which Taylor was held by those with whom he transacted business was told by Mrs. Edna Goodwin of 1910 West Sixth street. 'We owned a garage near the Taylor home,' Mrs. Goodwin said. 'Mr. Taylor often came to us for gasoline and other service. That was three years ago before he entered the army. 'He had a buff colored chummy roadster, and there was always a young lady with him--generally the same one. As soon as we saw the car coming we'd run out, exclaiming: ''There's Bill Taylor; there's Bill Taylor.' 'We thought so much of him. And every one connected with the garage thought the same. He was a wonderful man. I can't understand why anyone would want to harm him. 'Taylor had a Chinese chauffeur at that time, Lester Wing. And after Taylor went away, Wing entered the service of another man. But he could not be consoled. He would often come in and say: ''I wish Mr. Taylor would come back, so I could be his chauffeur again. I'll never get another boss like him.''
1922-02-06	Los Angeles, Feb. 5--Once, in an expansive mood, William Desmond Taylor, film director, whose murder last Wednesday was one of the most mysterious ever recorded in Los Angeles, talked intimately with his chauffeur, Lester Wing. 'I never really loved but one woman,' Taylor declared to the Chinese, according to the latter's story, told yesterday. 'She was my stage partner. I was engaged to her. But she died before we could be married--and I'll never marry another woman.' Wing was in Taylor's employ for several years before the film director deserted the land of make-believe to take part in the real, hard game of war. 'Mr. Taylor was a fine man,' Wing said. 'He was very good to his servants. And brave. Why, on the way to Bakersfield one time, a car sped around a curve ahead of us, threatening to run us off the road, but Mr. Taylor never flinched. 'Also, he trusted people too much, at times, I think. Once he trusted anyone it was forever. Many times he sent me to deposit money in the bank-- $1,500, $2,000, and sometimes as high as $3,000 in money and checks. 'Once a lady from New York sent him a telegram asking to help her. She was in need. He sent me to the telegraph office with $200 in cash to send to her. 'He taught me lots of things. Anything I ever wanted to know he would explain and make me understand.' The only woman with whom Taylor was friendly at the time of Wing's service was Neva Gerber, according to the Chinese. She was with Taylor several times a week. Two or three times a week it was Taylor's habit to call for his car, a beautiful gray one, and take a long ride alone. Often, Wing said, he would leave the car with the chauffeur and talk long, solitary walks. 'He would walk alone, eat alone, cook alone--everything alone,' the former chauffeur said. 'The only time he would want to see me would be to make appointments.' The high esteem in which Taylor was held by those with whom he transacted business was told by Mrs. Edna Goodwin of 1910 West Sixth street. 'We owned a garage near the Taylor home,' Mrs. Goodwin said. 'Mr. Taylor often came to us for gasoline and other service. That was three years ago before he entered the army. 'He had a buff colored chummy roadster, and there was always a young lady with him--generally the same one. As soon as we saw the car coming we'd run out, exclaiming: ''There's Bill Taylor; there's Bill Taylor.' 'We thought so much of him. And every one connected with the garage thought the same. He was a wonderful man. I can't understand why anyone would want to harm him. 'Taylor had a Chinese chauffeur at that time, Lester Wing. And after Taylor went away, Wing entered the service of another man. But he could not be consoled. He would often come in and say: ''I wish Mr. Taylor would come back, so I could be his chauffeur again. I'll never get another boss like him.''
1922-02-06	I sought those letters and hoped to get them before they reached the scrutiny of others. I admit this but it was for only one purpose--to prevent their terms of affection from being misconstrued. 'You see, just in a jest, Mr. Taylor called me 'Blessed Baby'--it started at dinner parties we attended together. And just to tease him, I called him--this great, big, stern-minded man--'Baby' in return. They were used in our letters, strictly in fun, and I feared, well, misunderstanding.' And this is the reason Mabel Normand, famous film star, told The Examiner yesterday that she sought so earnestly the missives exchanged between her and the slain motion-picture director, William Desmond Taylor, after the inquest Saturday. But the letters and telegrams she refers to are strangely missing. Following the second burglary of the Taylor bungalow, at 404 B South Alvarado street some weeks ago, they were found undisturbed when Taylor showed Miss Normand about the ransacked rooms. They were then in the top drawer of the dresser. 'Our letters exchanged were mostly 'joshing' ones, frivolous and jesting about the trivialities we had come upon since our last meeting. Some were of more serious import, explained why dinner engagements we had arranged had to be canceled,' Miss Normand said yesterday. 'Most of the Letters--there were eight or nine of them--were written when either he and I was in New York and sent from the Ritz-Carlton. One was when I was ill and told him the difficulty I had in purchasing certain types of golf balls he had requested me to purchase for him in the city. 'The telegrams, a half dozen of them, were of similar nature merely asking about the health of the other and telling him how I was enjoying the attractions in the metropolis. 'I seldom would sign my name, preferring to keep him guessing with a sketch of myself at the end of the letter. His calling me 'Blessed Baby'-- started at a dinner party--and he said it, of course, with a laugh, but it seemed so inconsistent from that stern-typed man--and I joshed him about it. Later, in the same laughing spirit, I called him by the equally inconsistent term 'Baby' and we continued it. But since I have feared that it would be misconstrued--that it would not appear to be as intended.' Then the famous picture star reverted in conversation to the night of the tragedy, when the director was slain a short time after he had escorted Miss Normand to her waiting automobile. 'There is a doubt yet in my mind but that the murderer was not in the house secreted during the time of my short visit with Mr. Taylor,' she said. 'I can't understand how he could have been brazen enough to have entered during the brief interim when Mr. Taylor came with me to the curbing. 'A mysterious part of it all was a telephone call he was receiving shortly before I visited his apartment to inquire about a book he was to lend me. He was helping me with my literary studies, you know, and treated me always with the courtesy of an adviser. 'My bell was answered by his colored servant, Henry Peavey, who told me Mr. Taylor was telephoning. Not wishing to eavesdrop on a private conversation I told Peavey I would wait outside. When Mr. Taylor heard my voice he hurriedly cut off his phone call and rushed to meet me with: ''Oh, I know why you have come. It is for the book I was to lend you.' We talked for about three quarters of an hour--it was just 7:45 that evening when I left him--and then he told me that he had some checks to mail out. He said he would phone to me about 9 and see how I enjoyed the start of the book. 'Shortly before this, Peavey who had been finishing his work in the kitchen, nodded a 'good night,' stopped for a short conversation with my chauffeur and went on his way. After Mr. Taylor had helped me with my wraps he took me to my car, where we talked for a moment about a magazine I had purchased. I then drove away, 'My opinion is that Mr. Taylor was murdered for a motive of revenge, but just why someone would seek vengeance is beyond my comprehension. Never in his conversation with me had he spoken of any enmity between him and others. And I never should have suspected it, as he was the type that seemed to make of everyone a devoted friend. 'In my opinion Mr. Taylor was of irreproachable morals, a typical gentleman, who seemed incapable of stooping to things of the questionable or dishonorable sort. To me he was always a kindly adviser in my efforts at mental improvement and to all who knew him he was an inspiration to the nobler and loftier things of life. 'If there is a possibility that the jealousy of another woman enters into the mystery,' Miss Normand continued, 'I feel certain that the phone call which he was receiving as I entered his apartment had something to do with it. 'Whoever it was calling him seemed intensely absorbed in what he had to say. And the hasty cutting off of the conversation might have aroused antagonism in any one interested in Mr. Taylor in a sentimental way. Perhaps the announcement of his servant, Peavey, that I had come was overheard by the person at the other end of the wire. And perhaps--who can tell--that it was this person who imagined jealousy and outraged feelings and came immediately to the apartment and committed the venomous deed. 'I did not ask him who it was that called, for I felt it was none of my business. Then again, he was not the type of man who lets others in on what he considered his private affairs. He was very secretive--almost seemed to place a barrier of mystery between him and his most intimate friends--and it was this mystic quality that gave him such marked fascination. 'Of this much I am thoroughly convinced: It was a man, not a woman, who fired the shot that killed Taylor. I know the feminine sex and feel certain that a woman would have had to take more than one shot to have had as deadly an effect as the one that brought about his demise. Perhaps in three or four efforts she might have done it--but not in one. 'The man who committed this deed was a sure shot and understood the gun game. He understood where to aim, and when--an experienced gunman. 'As for the disappearance of my letters I cannot account. I know of absolutely no one who would be interested in them. They have no significance of anything except the harmless friendship that existed between us. When I saw Mr. Taylor was keeping them I asked him why. And I remember yet his kindly countenance when he smiled and said: 'Oh--just because.' 'He often remonstrated with me because I did not write more frequently. But what I usually had to say was done over the phone or in his presence. 'I want everyone to know, however, that I am doing all I possibly can to aid in the solution of this tragic mystery,' she concluded. 'For Mr. Taylor was to me the very personification of kindliness and righteousness--the sort of man that made it an honor to be called his friend.'
1922-02-06	On my word of honor, on my word of honor. Get it straight, please.' Mabel Normand emphasized that phrase all the time that she talked to me about William Desmond Taylor, the moving picture director who had been her friend and who was mysteriously murdered shortly after he had placed her in her auto Wednesday night. Miss Normand, nervous and shaken, heavy-lidded from loss of sleep and the grueling inquisition to which she has been subjected since the murder, came into her delightful sitting-room this morning and talked freely of her friendship with the dead man, and the rumors that since his death have arisen about him. 'I was never in love with Mr. Taylor in the way one means when they use the expression 'in love.' If he was in love with me, he never told me. 'There was no thought or talk of marriage between us. Our friendship was based on comradeship and understanding. In many ways he was wonderful. I loved to go out with him because he understood so well when my work forced me to break engagements, and because we loved so many of the same things, books, music, pictures.' 'Do you know any woman who might have been jealous of you, who might have loved Mr. Taylor?' I asked. 'On my word of honor, no,' she cried, beating her tiny hands together. 'Or any man who might have been jealous of the place that he occupied in your esteem?' Again the emphatic denial and the movement of the slender hands. 'It has been hinted that he had dope parties,' suggested another reporter. 'Did you ever hear of them?' 'Never, in God's world, never, on my word of honor. Billy was one of the cleanest and most temperate men in all his habits. He was sick, and very careful of his diet. He loved clean, simple pleasures, and he was a kind and thoughtful friend. 'Flowers? Yes, he sent them to me three times a week. He knew that I loved flowers. And--yes, he telegraphed me often when I was in New York, but not every night. His telegrams were sometimes about things he wanted me to get for him in New York, sometimes just efforts to keep me posted about things here. I bought golf balls for him and he looked after the welfare of my dog and often wired me that it was well. 'And, oh, please, say that I never heard of that pink nightgown, and that I always went to Mr. Taylor's dinners with a crowd.' 'Henry Peavey, the colored servant, said'-- 'He ought to be ashamed to say that I asked him about other girls going to Mr. Taylor's house,' Miss Normand burst out. 'Henry ought to be grateful to me. I saved him his job when Mr. Taylor wanted to fire him. I begged that Billy wouldn't fire him on a rumor which might be false. 'And say this, please, on my word of honor, I never spoke to Henry in my life except in Mr. Taylor's presence, and can you imagine my asking before Billy about other girls? Henry has told an awful big story. 'I hope they find my letters because they are just little messages about everyday things. I never did go to the house to search for them. I only went to show the police how the furniture had been arranged. 'I can't imagine anybody wanting to kill Billy. He was the kindest, most patient and tactful man I ever knew. I never knew him to lose his temper and, no, I never saw him show fear.' And so the little star rattled on, begging, explaining, replying to all questions with the utmost frankness and detail. 'She's worn out, poor little thing,' said A. McArthur, publicity manager for the Sennett studios. 'She wants to help clear up this mystery, but she needs rest terribly. We can't take her out of town. If we do everybody will say she ran away, and nobody will let her rest in town; the telephone goes every minute and the doorbell, too. 'The poor kid lost a friend when Taylor died, but she knows nothing about why or how he died. You can bet on that.'
1922-02-06	Several detectives were inclined to the theory that the person who slew Taylor may have been mentally unbalanced, and qualified their remarks regarding that phase of the probe by discussing confidential reports obtained today from the mystery witness who called at detective headquarters and who was said to have stated he saw Sands near the scene of the slaying late Wednesday night.
1922-02-06	...There was some friction in the police probe of the slaying today and it was reported that certain detectives had asked to be given other assignments rather than continue investigating the murder with asserted misunderstanding existing. Several detectives were inclined to the theory that the person who slew Taylor may have been mentally unbalanced, and qualified their remarks regarding that phase of the probe by discussing confidential reports obtained today from the mystery witness who called at detective headquarters and who was said to have stated he saw Sands near the scene of the slaying late Wednesday night. A clew regarding what became of the letters and telegrams said to have been in Taylor's dresser drawer, written by Mabel Normand, film actress and friend of the slain director, was given to the police today while the slaying was being investigated from the hour Taylor's dead body was found. Investigation was made of a report that after Taylor's death Miss Normand's letters were taken away by a visitor to the house. Considerable time was devoted to reviewing the occurrences at Taylor's residence following the finding of the body by Henry Peavey, negro valet- cook. It was pointed out that when aid for Detective Sergeant Tom Zeigler reached the bungalow court, fully a half hour after the report was received that Taylor had presumably died of natural causes, the house was virtually filled with strangers to the detectives who may have disturbed important evidence. The detectives who clung to the belief that Taylor was shot and killed in a 'love triangle' by a vengeance-seeking lover, or by a hired assassin, continued to direct their investigation today into the realms of stardom and several of the leading actors and actresses were questioned regarding the slain director's recent activities, his intimates, his asserted affairs of the heart and the source from which he obtained select liquors. Detectives Theodore Mailheau and Lloyd Yarrow, members of the police narcotic squad, investigated reports that Taylor was a close friend of several film luminaries said to be addicted to the use of narcotics. Taylor was not a drug addict, say the police, but may have had knowledge of drug peddlers supplying the alleged addicts...
1922-02-06	Another interesting picture of the past life of the slain director was revealed today by Miss Neva Gerber, film actress, who was at one time engaged to marry Taylor. Miss Gerber declared that she had seen Taylor wrapped in spells of utter despondency on many occasions and that on several of these period he had expressed a wish to 'end it all.' She said that Taylor often complained of ill health, declaring that he could not eat anything, and that he was usually most despondent when he had just completed a picture upon which he had been working extremely hard.
1922-02-06	...The shot that killed William Desmond Taylor was fired from a distance of only three or four inches. This startling discovery in the murder mystery was announced following a conference at police headquarters today between the officers investigating the crime. It was revealed when Detective Sergeant Edward King, detailed to duty at the district attorney's office, brought to the conference the clothing of the murdered movie director. Powder burns on the tan gabardine coat indicated that the revolver was held by the assassin almost against Taylor's body. Experiments in the police shooting gallery, where shots were fired at a similar piece of cloth from varying distances, confirmed the surmise that the muzzle of the revolver could not have been more than 4 inches from Taylor's coat when the fatal shot was fired. This discovery leads to two speculations. Number One: (Which is not considered seriously by the police,) is that Taylor killed himself. But no weapon was found by the body. The only conclusion reconcilable with this hypothesis is that the body was discovered by a burglar, who had entered the apartment and who was frightened away after picking up the revolver. Number Two: Taylor might have engaged in a desperate struggle with his assassin before he was killed, and that they were at death grips when the murderer pulled out his weapon and fired. This speculation is born out by the overturned chair found across the dead man's feet. But nothing else in the room had been disturbed however. If Taylor saw his slayer and grappled with him, it is believed that he must have recognized him as an enemy. This belief leads to the abandonment of the burglar theory and the concentration of every effort upon finding an ancient enemy of the murdered picture director--some one perhaps who knew him in the old days in New York, before he changed his name from Tanner to Taylor. ...Today's activities by the police followed a night of fruitless endeavor to solve the murder mystery by detectives and deputy sheriffs, outstanding in the night's work was the detention and grilling of two well- known movie actors. In overcoat and muffler, with a cap pulled down over his forehead, George Milo, picture actor, strode up and down the sidewalk last night in front of 404-B South Alvarado street, the bungalow home of Taylor. He was enacting, against his will, a role he had often played for profit in the films--that of a 'genteel heavy.' Eyes unseen by him looked out from the shuttered windows of the bungalow across the court from Taylor's. Mrs. Douglas MacLean, wife of the movie star, was comparing Milo with the man she saw leaving the bungalow where Taylor was murdered. Meanwhile, in a closed automobile, parked a short distance away deputy sheriffs were firing questions at Henri Reineque, actor and friend of Milo. The questions concerned his whereabouts and that of the other film actor last Wednesday night. Milo and Reineque were taken into custody at 8 o'clock last night as they were alighting from Milo's automobile in front of the Lobban apartments, 1030 West Eighth street, where both live. Al Manning, chief deputy in charge of criminal investigations at the sheriff's office, drove to the Lobban with Deputy Sheriff Harvey Bell. They had traced Milo's automobile after a mysterious telephone message had been received at the sheriff's office to the effect that a Maxwell sedan with a certain number stood in front of Taylor's home the night of the murder. The number given by the anonymous informant was that of Milo's closed Maxwell. 'The boss wants to see you,' explained Manning, accosting the men. 'Who's the boss?' asked one. 'The sheriff,' replied Bell. The two actors made no protest as they were escorted to the sheriff's automobile and taken to the office. Here they were separated and both subjected to a severe grilling on the question of their whereabouts Wednesday night. Milo at first seemed worried by the questions. 'You were a close acquaintance of Mabel Normand, weren't you?' demanded one of the five or six deputies who surrounded him with a circle of accusing eyes. 'No,' replied Milo. 'I worked with her in 'The Slim Princess.' Aside from that I know nothing about her.' One of the deputies later ran up and shook an accusing finger in Milo's face. 'Don't you know you are suspected of murdering William Taylor?' he shouted at Milo. The actor's face showed instant relief and he broke into a smile. Then he reached over and shook hands with his questioner. 'That's a good joke,' he said. 'You really had me frightened for a while. I didn't know what you wanted me for. But if that's it, why it's too ridiculous to do anything about except laugh.' The officers were not satisfied with this denial and bundled Milo into an automobile. He was taken to the South Alvarado street bungalow court, where he was dressed as the mysterious stranger was supposed to have been and made to promenade in front of the place. Meanwhile Reineque was being subjected to an equally severe fire of questions. 'Where were you Wednesday night?' iterated all of his questioners in chorus. 'For heaven's sake! Give a man time to think,' replied Reineque, scratching his head. He came from Alsace-Lorraine and speaks with a slight accent. Finally, after Mrs. Douglas MacLean had failed to recognize Milo as the muffled stranger whom she saw leaving Taylor's house and after continued questioning had failed to elicit anything of importance from either of the movie actors, they were driven home by the deputy sheriffs and dismissed with apologies for the inconvenience caused them. Both men were warned, however, that they were under surveillance and told not to leave town. Police Captain Adams and Detectives Cline, Cahill and Cato were with the deputy sheriffs and assisted at the investigation last night. Milo, a handsome chap of the movie leading man type, was still somewhat staggered by his experience of last night, when he was seen today. He was able to summon a smile, however, at what he characterized as the 'ridiculous charge that I killed Taylor.' His screen history in Los Angeles connects him as an actor with several prominent women stars with whom he has worked in various pictures. These include Pauline Frederick, Theda Bara, Clara Kimball Young, Ruth Roland and Mabel Normand. Milo today reiterated the statement he made to the officers that he only knew Miss Normand through working with her in one picture. The actor is of French birth, but has spent most of his life in America. Besides being an actor, he is an athlete of prowess. He formerly toured in vaudeville with an acrobatic act, in which he was 'understander' and also posed in a leopard skin to show his unusual muscular development. ...The disappearance of a frilly diaphanous article of feminine apparel, which Peavey said had reposed for months in a box in one of Taylor's dresser drawers, was another grain of mystery in the case today. The valet happened to remember about the missing garment and informed the police. It was in its usual place up to the night of the murder. Peavey said he did not know who the owner of the garment was or why Taylor kept it.
1922-02-06	...It was early Friday afternoon that Miss Minter came to view Desmond's body. She carried a dozen Black Prince roses intertwined with fern. As she saw the beloved form upon a couch she burst into tears and asked the friend who was with her to leave the room. The door closed behind him and for a few brief moments she was alone with Taylor. When Ivy H. Overholtzer, funeral director, opened the door a little later she was standing bowed over the body, her tears falling upon the gray silk robe in which it was clothed. Turning to the mantel upon which she had placed the roses she drew forth a single bud and laid it across Taylor's chest. Then, sobbing her grief, she left the room and was driven away in her car...
1922-02-06	Following the detention earlier in the day of a suspect and two material witnesses in the Taylor murder case, the escape of the slayer of William Desmond Taylor from the dimly-lighted court on South Alvarado street was re- enacted last night in the very shadows where the murderer lurked last Wednesday night awaiting his chance to kill the famous film director. The dramatic action was precipitated by the taking into custody of three men by Al Manning, criminal superintendent of the Sheriff's office, and Deputy Sheriff Harvey Bell. The suspect and the two men who were wanted as material witnesses against him were detained after an investigation lasting two days, and as the result of information that an automobile said to resemble one owned by the suspect was seen at the scene of the crime on the night of the 1st inst. The suspect was taken to the scene of the crime after a long cross- examination at the Sheriff's office, and after he was unable to state definitely where he was at the time Taylor was killed. Accompanied by his captor and Detective Sergeant Herman H. Cline, the man was taken to the vicinity of the slaying for the purpose of re-enacting the tragedy. No positive identification was made, however, and the man was released, with instructions to remain in touch with the investigating officers. The suspect is a motion-picture actor. He admitted the ownership of the automobile, but denied he was the man seen leaving the Alvarado street court. Immediately after the suspect was taken away from the vicinity, Capt. Adams, Detectives Cline, Cahill and Cato, in charge of the investigation, and several members of the motion-picture interests, now working in an effort to solve the slaying of one of their members went into conference in the Taylor apartment. A new reconstruction of the crime, and a general checking up of all known facts and factors in the case was the purpose of the gathering, according to the announcement by the officers and by Frank E. Garbutt and Charles F. Eyton, general manager of the Famous Players-Lasky Company. 'We are going to take every known fact and factor and check all available information. We have nothing new, but we want to make certain of all we have,' was the only announcement after the conference. The large table in the Taylor apartment was piled high with papers and letters when the officers and film officials went into the conference. A thorough check of every document, picture, telegram and letter was promised, with a view of gleaning, if possible, some clew that would assist in the search for the slayer. None of the furniture in the room has been disturbed. The half-dozen detectives detailed to the solution of the crime yesterday were particularly active. The chocolate-colored automobile seen to leave the vicinity of the Taylor home at 404-B South Alvarado street has been identified, it was learned, and eliminated as bearing on the case. Henry Peavey, colored houseman for Mr. Taylor, and the man who found the body, yesterday was in conference with some of the detectives. He is declared to have wanted to leave Los Angeles to go north and sought permission to do so. He is said to have added little new information to the case. Peavey left the Taylor home while Mabel Normand was there and more than a half hour before the assassin shot his victim through the heart. Many letters, bills and other correspondence found among the effects of Mr. Taylor were closely examined during the day for possible information. Among those letters were messages of greeting and friendly notes from many film stars including Blanche Sweet and Gloria Swanson. The correspondence and other papers including many canceled checks threw considerable light on the acquaintances and activities of Mr. Taylor but little on the question of who shot him. Detectives Cahill and Cato responded to a 'hot tip' early in the afternoon coming from a downtown address but nothing definite developed. A great number of 'tips' have been reported to the police station and although many of them are not regarded as valuable on the surface all are being carefully checked that no clew be overlooked. Throughout all the investigation thus far the name of Edward F. Sands or Edward Fitz or Edward Fitz Strathmore--all of which names he used-0-has been prominently projected into the mystery. Sands, a former secretary who was accused of robbing Mr. Taylor and of forging many checks on his bank account, is being sought. The police are anxious to find him because of the knowledge he may have of Mr. Taylor's past life. The uncovering of the dual existence led by the prominent director, whose name became a household word throughout the country, has strangely muddled the situation. Many new motives and possibilities have been brought to the front because of Taylor's dual life and mysterious past. The discovery of a deserted wife and daughter who knew Mr. Taylor as William Cunningham Deane Taylor [sic] before he suddenly left New York in 1908 has been one of the puzzling chapters in the man's past life. His frequent trips to the Far North also add color to many theories of real or fancied wrongs of his acquaintances in his wandering days forming the background of a revenge slaying. Mabel Normand's missing letters were sought by the detectives yesterday. Miss Normand probably the last friend to see Mr. Taylor alive, attempted Saturday to recover some letters written by her to the slain man and known to have been in the home. Detective Sergeants Herman Cline, Cato, Cahill, Winn, Wallace and Zeigler state they have not found these letters. Captain of Detectives Adams also denies having them. The officers say they do not know who has them. Chief Dep. Dist.-Atty. Doran says also that he has seen nothing of them.
1922-02-06	Mr. Taylor loved Miss Normand very much, but I do not believe that she returned his love to any great extent.' This is what Henry Peavey, Taylor's colored house servant, said early yesterday evening when questioned by reporters of The Times. 'I was in Mr. Taylor's house for almost six months,' declared Peavey, 'and I know that Mr. Taylor was very much in love with Miss Normand. At times I thought that she returned his love and then again it seemed to me that she was tired of him. 'One night almost a month before Mr. Taylor was killed Miss Normand came to the house for dinner. After dinner she went into the front room with Mr. Taylor and they were talking. I passed through the room and she stopped me. She told me then that she and Mr. Taylor were to be married. He was sitting there and didn't say a word. She wanted to know if I would work for them and I told her that I was afraid that I would be unable to please her. She stated that I was pleasing Mr. Taylor and that therefore I would please her. 'Miss Normand never came to the house very often. During the time I worked there she was only in Mr. Taylor's home about a dozen times. She was there the night before the murder and again the night that Mr. Taylor was killed. I know that she was with Mr. Taylor on the Tuesday night, before the Wednesday that he was killed, because she told me so. Wednesday night when she came in Mr. Taylor asked her to have some pudding. She said while I was in the room that she did not care for any pudding that night, but had enjoyed the pudding that she had the night before. Then I learned for the first time what had happened to some pudding that I had left in the ice box on Tuesday night and that was gone Wednesday morning when I arrived at the Taylor home. 'In my job as houseman I was in a position to know quite a bit about Mr. Taylor's business. He wrote a litter to Miss Normand almost every day of the week. His driver would take the notes to Miss Normand's home by automobile after breakfast in the mornings. A week never went by that he did not write to her at least three times. 'Mr. Taylor always sent Miss Normand flowers at least three times a week. He purchased the flowers from a wholesale place on Los Angeles street between Second and Third streets. Once I paid for some of them, the single bunch cost $35. He would have the flowers sent out from the wholesale house direct. 'While Miss Normand was in New York finishing her last picture Mr. Taylor send her a telegram every evening of his life. He would give them to me and I sent them on my way home. I always gave them to the same girl in the Western Union main office. She is still working there. Miss Normand answered his telegrams and almost every morning just after I arrived at the Taylor home the boy would come with Miss Normand's telegram. Mr. Taylor saved them all, but I don't know where he kept them. 'I remember one evening when Miss Normand was with Mr. Taylor in his home she saw his new music box and while I was in the room she asked him if they were going to have one like it when they were married. He told her that they would keep the one he had just purchased if she liked it. 'A year ago last Christmas Miss Normand gave Mr. Taylor a set of diamond shirt studs and diamond cuff links. Last Christmas she sent him a large silver cigarette case and a match holder and a cigarette holder. Some time after Christmas the match and cigarette holder disappeared, but he had the case on him the night that he died. I don't know what Mr. Taylor gave Miss Normand for Christmas, but I know that he was always sending her something or other. 'Mr. Taylor used to talk to Miss Normand over the telephone a great deal. He always asked me to get the number for him. Sometimes some one would answer me and when I said that Mr. Taylor wished to speak to Miss Normand they would hang up the telephone. It was then that I would believe that Miss Normand did not care for my master like he did for her. 'Only once during the time that I worked for Mr. Taylor did Miss Normand ask me about other girls. She stopped me once when she was in the home and ask me what other girls had dinner with Mr. Taylor. I told her that there was only one. She ask me who the one was an I told, Miss Normand. She laughed at me and said that Mr. Taylor had me well trained. 'Miss Normand was with Mr. Taylor the last time I saw him alive. My master asked me to mix up some cocktails and I did. I placed the liquor in the shaker on a tray with two glasses and Mr. Taylor and Miss Normand were drinking when I left for the evening. They both said good night to me and I left the house. When I next saw Mr. Taylor he was dead on the floor of his living-room.'
1922-02-06	A woman's pink silk nightgown found in the bachelor apartments of William Desmond Taylor, celebrated film director, who was slain in his home last Wednesday night, yesterday added another puzzling phase to the deepening mystery of circumstances surrounding his death. From former employees of Mr. Taylor it was learned that silken things unknown in a man's wardrobe were among the effects of Mr. Taylor. That the police found evidence of this was learned for the first time yesterday, following the stories related by two former employees. Henry Peavey, the houseman who discovered the body on Thursday morning, declared he had seen at least one pink silk nightgown there. In connection with this, it also was learned yesterday how Edward F. Sands, former secretary, accused robber and forger and now being sought as a material witness in the murder case, spied on his employer while working for Mr. Taylor. Sands related his observations to Earl Tiffany, former chauffeur for Mr. Taylor, so Mr. Tiffany says. He observed silken things of pink hue in the upstairs rooms of the expensively appointed apartment. His curiosity was aroused. So Sands folded the garments in a trick manner, according to the story related by Mr. Tiffany, who was employed at the same time as was Sands. The result of the servant's trap were that he became convinced the garments were not merely kept there for sentimental reasons. He paid particular attention to the visitors to the Taylor home, it was declared, and drew his own conclusions. Peavey stated last night he remembered seeing at least one pink nightgown. If his memory serves him right, he added, it was there the day Mr. Taylor was killed. Police officers yesterday were evasive as to the whereabouts of the lingerie. They declined to say whether or not they are devoting part of their efforts to that phase of the mystery.
1922-02-06	(Los Angeles)--...The fact that his houseman, Henry Peavey, and his former secretary, Edward F. Sands, are both said to be 'queer persons,' has led to much speculation whether Taylor was abnormal himself. It is thought by a majority who are investigating the case that this is a phase which will develop and throw much new light on the case.
1922-02-06	Los Angeles, Feb. 5--...A report of a threat made on the night of the murder also was being run down. This report, made by a business man to the police, was expected to set the officers on the trail of a man who is quoted as saying on the night Taylor was slain within a few minutes after Mabel Normand left the Taylor home: 'There will be a movie director show up missing in the morning.'... Capt. Adams said it was not impossible that Taylor was killed by a burglar, who seized upon the opportunity provided when Taylor escorted Miss Normand to her automobile to sneak in the house. The position of the bullet and the line of fire indicated shows, Capt. Adams said, that the assassin probably was crouching behind the door when Taylor entered... The fact that his houseman, Henry Peavey, and his former secretary, Edward F. Sands, are both said to be 'queer persons,' has led to much speculation whether Taylor was abnormal himself. It is thought by a majority who are investigating the case that this is a phase which will develop and throw much new light on the case. Other associates of the man are known to the police to be persons of vicious habits...
1922-02-06	QUESTION AN ACTOR AND CAMERA MAN  IN TAYLOR MURDER After Two-Hour Examination in County Jail They Are Both Released OTHER CLUES FOLLOWED One Leads to a Drug Peddler who, it is Thought, Sold to Actress Through Taylor. MISSING EVIDENCE SOUGHT Some Clothing and Letters to Slain Man From Actress have Disappeared From His Home. LOS ANGELES, Feb. 5.-A motion picture actor and a camera man were brought to the Los Angeles County Jail here tonight for questioning as to their possible knowledge of clues to the murder of William Desmond Taylor, film director. After a two-hour examination they were released. Their names were not made public. The make-up was still on the actor's face when he arrived at the jail indicating, officers stated, that the Deputy Sheriffs who had brought him in, Al Manning, chief criminal deputy, and Harvey Bell, were in great haste to learn his story. The men were located at a motionpicture studio in the Hollywood district of Los Angeles, it was stated. After they had been questioned separately for two hours, the officers started back to Hollywood with the actor to give him an opportunity to make good his declaration to the deputies that he could account for his movements last Wednesday night, the night Taylor was slain. Apparently he did so for the release followed. Another angle was the story told by an associate of the dead director that a former employe had been heard to exclaim, when he heard of the slaying: "Bill Taylor got only what he deserved." The investigation showed, the police said, that this man had been employed by the Famous Players-Lasky concern. working under Taylor, in a minor capacity. One day he was drunk when he went on duty. Taylor ordered him removed from the place. The next day the man returned, only to find an order from Taylor that he should not be admitted. The police say they had begun a search for him. The Day's Other Clues. Search for a drug peddler, upon whose trail the police said they were "getting warmer," and the absence of a woman's silken night dress, said by Henry Peavey, colored houseman, to be missing from the apartments of Taylor, the other developments here tonight of the search for his slayer. The police were reticent as to the details concerning their search for the man, a peddler who was believed to have sought patrons for his contraband drugs among the employes of motion picture studios, but they intimated their belief he had attempted to make a delivery through Taylor to an actress who found it difficult to make her purchases in person. This was the first active participation of the Sherifff's forces in the case. The exact importance of the missing night dress, which was pink, was not made plain. Peavey, however, was firm in his declaration that it had a regular place in Taylor's apartments, and equally firm in his assertions that since his employer was slain he had been unable to find it. Letters Are Also Missing. The whereabouts of letters which Miss Mabel Normand, motion picture actress, said she had written to Taylor and which she said were missing from his apartments continued to be a matter of suspicion today. It is believed that these letters and other papers could have been removed last Thursday morning some time during the period when Taylor's house was unguarded, while it was believed he had died of natural causes. Miss Normand said she had seen the letters in the apartment a few days before the murder, and knew no reason why any one should want them. She said she would be willing to publish anything they contained. Investigators expressed themselves as at a loss to account for the disappearance of Miss Normand's letters. They declared, however, that they did mot believe the letters would throw any light on the case, The "main issue" so far, one investigator said, was the whereabouts of the missing valet Sands for a few days before the shooting. The search for Sands continued today. Checking of the various angles of the case among members of the motion picture colony and other friends and acquaintances of Taylor almost invariably led to some mention of Sands's name, according to detectives. Police said they had had several clues to Sands's whereabouts, but that these had resulted in disappointments. Two other men besides Peavey, the negro servant, whose names were not divulged, were also questioned at Police Headquarters. One of these men departed with detectives, who said that they were merely going to check up on an angle of the case that had been previously investigated. Tells of Feeling Toward Sands. Tending to show the alleged feeling of Taylor toward Edward F. Sands, or Edward Fitz Strathmore, his former butler, whom the director had charged with a felony, was a further statement today by Henry Peavey, Taylor's colored houseman. "Not long ago," says Peavey, "I was showing Mr. Taylor a coat I had bought.'That looks like one Sands stole from me, he said.'Oh, if I could only get my hands on that fellow.'" Melbourne MacDowell, actor, husband of the late Fannie Davenport, looked over an old scrapbook today and then gave to the press his belief that Taylor, under the name of Cunningham Deane,  played with the Fannie Davenport company at the Fifth Avenue Theatre in  New York in 1894, and later in Boston and during a tour of the country in 1895 and 1896. Taylor's body, dressed in the uniform of a British officer he wore in the World War, was viewed today by many friends and others at an undertaking establishment, where it will lie until the funeral services Tuesday at St. Paul's Episcopal Pro-Cathedral. Many flowers were sent there, to await transfer after the services, to the cemetery vault, where the body will be held until the arrivel of the Director's daughter, who has been in school in Mamaroneck, N. Y. Pallbearers will be William C. De Mille, Frank Seal, George Melford, Arthur Hoyt, James Young, Frank Lloyd, David Hartford and Charles Eyton, all widely known in motion pictures. Members of the British Overseas Club will attend the funeral in a body and a squad of former Canadian soldiers will fire a salute over the casket. Lester Wing, a Chinese, former chauffeur for Taylor, said today that the director once told him: " I never really loved but one woman. She was my stage partner. I was engaged to her, but she died before we could be married-and all never marry another woman." Engaged to Neva Gerber. The only woman whom Taylor called upon often during Wings service with him was Neva Gerber, film actress, who said here Friday she and Taylor had once been engaged to be marrled. But, while he and Miss Gerber were together two or three times a week, according to Wing, Taylor passed most of his time alone. Winifred Kingston, film actress, characterized tonight as " ridiculous," the report she had been engaged to marry Taylor, a rumor that spread after it was discovered that the only framed photograph found in the director's apartment was one of her. Miss Kingston and Taylor had been acquainted, she said, a fact she attributed to their both being of British birth. She said he told her something of his domestic affairs. I also learned something of Sands, the Butler," said Miss Kingston. "When Edward Knoblock was living at Mr. Taylor's home, Sands, at various times, bought a considerable amount of lingerie, which, I understand, he gave to a young girl a very young creature in whom he was interested and who lived at home with her mother. All of this he charged to Mr: Taylor's account at a Los Angeles department store, he was told. This naturally enraged the director when he returned from abroad. On day, to show his affection and regard for Mr. Taylor, Sands drew up a contract stating he would be the director's servant for life, would always be his slave. I don't know what happened to the document, but I do know Mr. Taylor laughed about it. The search through the director's belongings today brought forth messages and notes from many film actresses, including Blanche Sweet and Glorla Swanson. Whether the fact that Taylor had changed his name from William Cunningham Deane-Tanner, by which he was known in New York fourteen years ago, had any bearing upon the case had not been determined today, according to the police. JUNEAU, Alaska, Feb. 5.-William Desmond Taylor, motion-picture director slain at Los Angeles, played in his own stock company at Fairbanks, Skagway and other Alaska towns during the Winter of 1909, according to residents here. He once was interested in mining ventures near Dawson and in the Klondike district. Knew Taylor as Deane-Tanner. Several persons in New York who knew William Desmond Taylor as Deane-Tanner, a dealer in antiques, before he abandoned his wife and child in 1908, had been aware for some time before his death that the two men were the same. They had seen him when he was acting in moving pictures, and some of his former friends wrote to him, but without receiving a reply. Frank I. Sparrell of Westfield, N. J., was one of those who had been associated in business with Deane-Tanner in New York, and who recognized him years after his disappearance as Taylor, the moving picture actor and later the  director. He was known as "Pete" Deane-Tanner to Sparrell and other men who were with A. J. Crawford in an antique shop in Fifth Avenue. DeaneTanner's brother Dennis, who disappeared four years after William went away, also worked for Crawford. "After being with the firm a couple of years Dennis left to go with Vernay," said Mr. Sparrell. "'Pete' was considering going with Vernay, but changed his mind and stayed with Crawford. "We all knew and liked'Pete,' who was President of the concern. I noticed as we all did the spells of terrible facial neuralgia, which he had at various times, and also lapses of memory. I saw him before he went to the races in October, 1908, and he seemed to be all right. At that time Mr. Crawford was  in Europe, and Deane-Tanner was running the business. When he didn't show up we all thought it was strange, and I  went to call on his wife at their home in Larchmont. She was considerably broken up about his disappearance, and had not heard from him since he left his home to go to the office and later to the races. "Pete" was a very reserved, cultured, quiet chap: not a heavy drinker, although he was a member of clubs where the members drank occasionally. His home life, as I had seen it many times, was most happy with his wife and little girl. "The appearance of'Pete' as the Mexican hero-horseman in'Captain Alvarez,' was the first intimation we had that he was alive. Some of his intimate friends wrote to him, but so far as I know, he never answered their letters. I have never seen him since he disappeared. "His business affairs were in excellent condition when he left. He had a comfortable, though not an elaborate home, and he was getting a salary of $10,000, which was considerable in those days. We all believe with his former wife, that he was suffering from some delusion or loss of memory when he disappeared. He was one of the finest men I have ever known." The principal link between Mabel Normand and Taylor was a liking for books, according to P. M. Asher, representative of Miss Normand's company, who recently returned from California. Taylor was looked upon in the colony as a man of unusual scholarship and knowledge of art and literature, Mr. Asher said, and he stood out in this respect so greatly that his advice was always sought on matters in which his general knowledge made him unusually useful. Miss Normand had learned much from him, and read many books which Taylor suggested, Mr. Asher declared. Taylor was seldom seen in the usual haunts of the moving-picture people of the colony, he said, and never in those of the gayer set. He kept much to himself, although he had many friends.  
1922-02-06	POLICE HOLD ACTOR IN FILM DEATH SIFT   Detain Cameraman Also for Questioning.   DRUG PEDDLER SOUGHT   Woman's Night Dress Figures in New Developments.   LATE CLEW HELD STRONGEST   Drug Peddler sought. Search for a drug peddler, upon whose trail the police said they were "getting warmer," and a woman's silken nightdress, said by Henry Peavey, colored houseman, to be missing from the apartments of William D. Taylor, slain film director, were the outstanding developments here tonight of the search for his slayer. The police were reticent as to the details concerning their search for the man, a peddler who was believed to have sought patrons for his contraband drugs among the employes of motion picture studios, but they intimated their belief he had attempted to make a delivery through Taylor to an actress who found it difficult to make her purchases in person.   The exact importance of the missing nightdress, which was pink, was not made plain. Peavey, however. was firm in his declaration that it had a regular place in Taylor's apartments and equally firm in his assertions that since his employer was slain he had been unable to find it.   Arrest Expected Soon. After the announcement of the search for the drug peddler, deputy  sheriffs left for an unnamed destination on what they termed the "most definit clew thus far discovered in the Taylor murder mystery." They  said they were going to interview "a certain party" and possibly make an arrest. This was the first active participation of the sheriffs forces in the case. The search for Edward F. Sands, missing butler of William D. Taylor, motion picture director, who was mysteriously murdered last Wednesday night, continued to be an important element of the investigation of Tayfor 's death, police said today.   Valet questioned Again. Henry Peavey, valet of Taylor, who found his employers body, eame to police headquarters again today and was questioned by detectives for  CONTINUED ON THIRD PAGE   POLICE HOLD ACTOR IN FILM DEATH SIFT   CONTINUED FROM FIRST PAGE. half hour.  It is understood he was asked for more detailed information concerning the arrangement of Tayor's furniture and other belongings in the apartments. Two other men whose names were not divulged, also were questioned at police headquarters. One of these men departed with detectives, who said merely they were going to check up on an angle of the case that had been previously investigated. The whereabouts of letters which Miss Mabel Normand, motion picture actdress, said she had written to Taylor, and which she said were missing from his apartments, continued to be an matter of suspicion today. It is believed that these letters and other papers could have been removed last Thursday morning, some time during the period when Taylor 's house was unguarded, while it was believed he ad died of natural causes. Miss Normand said she had seen the letters in the apartment a few days before the murder, and knew no reason way anyone should want them.   Other Clews Secret. A. L. Manning, head of the criminal investigation department of the sheriff's office, and several deputies were absent most of the day on a mission connected with the slaying. upon his return Manning said there had been certain developments he could not disclose at that time. His investigation today, he added, did not relates in any way to Sands. The district attorneys office also had men assigned to the case, working jointly with the police detective force.   Revenge, prompted by jealousy, remained apparently the most probable  motive for the alleged crime, investigators of the various departmentso  generally agreed. The possibility that the slayer was a frustrated blackmailer also was being considered. There was declared further to  be a mere chance that he was a burglar, surprised by Taylor, who fled after the shooting without attempting to remove any valuables.   Believe Slayer was Man. Capt. of Detectives David P. Adams, who is directing the police investigation, said everything in the case indicated that the slayer was a man. Whether the fact that Taylor had changed his name from William Cunningham Deane Tanner, by which he  was known in New York fourteen years ago had any bearing upon the case, had not been determined today according to the police. Investigators expressed themselves as at a loss to account for the disaprearance of Miss Normands letters. They declared, however, that they did not believe the letters would throw any light on the case. The "main issue" so far, one investigator said, was the whereabouts of the missing Valet, Sands, for a few days before the shooting.
1922-02-06	Actress Divorced Husband Said to Have Made Threats   Special to The Washington post. Loss Angeles, Calif., Feb. 5.-Adding new complications to the murder mystery which has stunned the motion picture world was the informa tion given to the police today that the divorced husband of a beautiful Hollywood screen actress might be able to aid in solving the mystery of who shot and killed William D. Taylor, noted film director and soldier of fortune, last Wednesday. This actress and Mr. Taylor, it was said, were very close friends and   were seen together frequently, but it was denied that there was an affair of the heart.  The husband, accord ing to the story told the police, was wildly jealous of his wife and quar rels over her association with certain well-known actors and actresses are said to have precipitated a divorce  action, the wife getting the decree several months ago.  At that time he is reported to have made threats, not only involving Mr. Taylor, but others in Hollywood. A search is now being made for this man, who has mysteriously dis  appeared.  A prominent motion picture actor who has been placed under surveilance until his movements before and after the crime can be thoroughly checked, is said to be a friend of his divorcee who was a friend of Taylor. Coincident with the uncovering this new clew, it was revealed that another name was used by Mr. Today as Melbourne McDowell, husband of the late Fanny Davenport, was looking over an old scrapbook, he came across the name of Cunningham Deane, whom he has often met many times since as William Desmond Taylor. When the Fanny Davenport company played in New York in 1894, according to Mr. McDowell, there was a handsome young Englishman playing one of the minor parts. The cast of characters showed that the actor who played Stradella, a noble in the play, was Cunningham Deane. Later in Boston and on tour all over the country during the years 189495-96, Cunningham Deane belonged to any Davenport casts.   Favorite with Players. "We all liked Deane," said Mr. McDowell. "He was a gentle young chap and a favorite in the company. I recognized him here, but he sort off fooled me at first, for the name of Taylor threw me off the track. Mr. Taylor was a great man. He was a soldier of fortune, but he won his  spurs. We all deeply regret his untimely end." According to Mr. McDowell, Mr. Taylor, who was said to be 45 years  old, must have been 52 at the time of his death. The new developments in the slaying enigma have tended to lessen suspicion against Edward F Sands, Mr. Taylor 's former valet, who openly boasted that he was going to "get" the film director. It was pointed out that while Sands robbed his employer of valuable gems and pawned them in Fresno and Sacramento, his actions  against his employer were for personal gain and it is not believed possible that a woman figured in his actions.
1922-02-06	Anxious to Hide "Blessed Baby" Letters to Taylor   Special to The Washington Post. Los Angeles, Feb. 6.-"I sought those letters and hoped to get them before they reached the scrutiny of others. I admit this, but it was for only one purpose, to prevent their terms of affection being misconstrued. "Just in a jest, Mr. Taylor called me "blessed baby." It started at dinner parties we attended together, and just to tease him I called him-this great big. stern-minded man-'Baby,' in return. These terms were used in our letters strictly in fun and I fear, will be misunderstood." This is the reason Mabel Normand, film star, gave tonight that she sought so earnestly the missives exchanged between her and the slain motion picture director, William Desmond Taylor, after the inquest Saturday.
1922-02-06	Taylor Said to Have Been Timekeeper for Gold Firm.   Santa Barbara, Calif., Feb. 5.-During most of the period between the disappearance of William Desmond Taylor from New York in 1908 and the time he entered the employment of a motion picture company in Los Angeles in 1912, he was working as time keeper for the Yuken Gold Company in Yukon territory, according to George Morrison, city engineer. Morrison said Taylor went to San Francisco from New York early in 1909 and from there was sent to the Yukon. He remained there until some time in 1912, according to Morrison, who was hydraulic engineer for the company during that time. He then went under the name of William Desmond Taylor, but he told Morrison, of whom he made a confidant, that that was not his real name. He also told Morrison, according to the letter, that he left New York because of an overwhelming burden of debt. Contracted while he was an art dealer there. Mrs. Potter Palmer. Chicago society leader, now dead, was his personal backer, he told Morrison. Juneau, Alaska, Feb. 5.-William Desmond Taylor, motion picture director slain at Los Angeles, played in his own stock company at Fairbanks. Skagway and other Alaska towns during the winter of 1909, according to residents here. He once was interrested in mining ventures near Dawson and in the Klondike district.
1922-02-07	E Los Angeles, Feb. 6--...Capt. Adams' conference in his office late today with Charles Eyton, referred to the scenes at the bungalow. And eventually they got back to Mabel's letters. 'I had heard about those letters,' the captain said. 'I looked for them when I went to the house Thursday noon, some time after Taylor's body had been found. They were gone.' 'It is possible some of Taylor's friends who got there first took the letters,' Eyton said. 'I would have taken them if I had been there in time.' There were perhaps a dozen film stars at the house before the police arrived. One of the first to get there was Arthur Hoyt, a friend of long standing.
1922-02-07	Located by the EXAMINER late last night and questioned until midnight by Deputy Sheriff Harvey Bell and George Pross, manager of the Burns Detective Agency, the wealthy young New Yorker, who had been engaged to a motion picture star frequently mentioned in connection with the William D. Taylor murder mystery, gave an account of himself, which, in the opinion of the officers, practically eliminates him from consideration. The examination of the young man occurred in a downtown hotel and was of special interest because of his close attentions to two of the actresses most conspicuous in the social life of Taylor. He was able, state the officers, to account for every hour of his time on the night of the murder. Interest had centered in this picturesque character for several days, largely because he was known as the rejected suitor of the star who, herself, was said to be infatuated with Taylor. Police and sheriff's officers were instructed to find this man, who had checked out from the fashionable hotel where he was a guest on Wednesday afternoon and, apparently, had disappeared. Information coming to THE EXAMINER late yesterday afternoon enabled one of its representatives to locate him. He was found in his room at a downtown hotel and his interrogation followed. His elimination is regarded by the police as one of the most important contributions to the case in that it removes a possibility which had engaged the efforts of several officers, and thus narrows the field in which investigation must be prosecuted.
1922-02-07	If Peavey, his colored servant, says that I had asked him about any girls that Mr. Taylor had ever been interested in, it is a venomous fabrication. Never in my life have I spoken to this man directly, and never have I talked to him in any way except in the presence of others, including Mr. Taylor. And as for the subject of girls--the question never entered my mind.' [5]
1922-02-07	Julia Crawford Ivers, scenarist for the late William D. Taylor, yesterday gave out the following statement: 'Today the friends of William D. Taylor, and they are legion, will gather to pay the last tribute to the man they love, to one who as man, director and friend measured 100 per cent. 'I have worked side by side with this man for seven years. We have solved many difficult problems together, sometimes pleasant, sometimes unpleasant: always hard, trying nerve-wracking. And during all these years of close association I have never known him to do one unkind, one ungenerous act, but I have known hundreds of instances of open-handed generosity and in most cases the beneficiary never knew whom to thank. 'This man whose loyalty and honor were without question, who takes with him the undying gratitude of the thousands to whom he has lent a helping hand--this man who stood for everything that was fine and clean in pictures, who is known to have declared that if it were necessary to his success to produce unclean pictures he would go back to the white, clean snows of Alaska and dig his living out of the ground--this man was shot in the back by a cowardly assassin. He was given no opportunity to defend himself and William D. Taylor would have defended himself, for he did not know the meaning of the word fear. And more cowardly than the assassin's bullet, lodged in the heart of this dear man, is the tongue of scandal, which safely sheltered behind his dead body, is striking at his reputation--more cowardly for he is powerless to defend himself. 'His friends know that when it is all over the character of Mr. Taylor will stand, as it always has stood, for everything that is fine and worth while. 'The good book says, 'Let him who is without sin cast the first stone.' And it is recorded that no stones were cast.'
1922-02-07	A gracious tribute to the memory of William D. Taylor, murdered director, was paid yesterday, in an interview by Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks. 'The most patient man I ever knew,' Mrs. Fairbanks said, and her husband added. 'We all knew him as a gentleman of whom the film industry might well be proud.' 'We were horribly shocked,' Mrs. Fairbanks said, 'to learn of his death and we simply refuse to believe the innuendos against his character. Neither of us were intimate friends of his, but he had directed me and we naturally were well acquainted. 'Both as a gentleman and as an artist I respected him. 'He was ever courteous, considerate, and above all, patient. It's pretty hard directing all sorts of people in big pictures, members of the casts often being temperamental and even stubborn. He never had a harsh word to say to anyone and would spend all sorts of time and energy to get just the artistic results he wanted. 'To me and to everyone who ever mentioned him to me, he was always the quiet, reserved, artistic gentleman. The films could not have lost a more valuable or more beloved member and I cannot deplore too much the fact of the tragedy or the attendant notoriety. 'We are hardly ever out and have our own small circle of friends, and so about his private life we know nothing. But it seems a shame that these girls should have to be linked up with such a ghastly crime. Although I know none of them well, I have always heard of them as nice, well thought of citizens.' To this statement Douglas Fairbanks added only that he had met Taylor a few times and though not an intimate of his, knew of him as a man of the highest caliber and a man who was ever trying to make of the films something finer and better.
1922-02-07	In order to refute the statement by wire from her aunt, Mrs. John Ketcham of Buffalo, N. Y., Mrs. Ada Deane-Tanner of Monrovia, divorced wife of Dennis Deane-Tanner, stated in detail yesterday numerous points and occurrences which preclude the possibility of William Deane-Tanner and Dennis Deane-Tanner being one and the same man. 'It was just a few days after the birth of my first little daughter, Muriel, in 1908, that I first saw William Deane-Tanner, my husband's brother. He came out to see his new niece and while there was a resemblance in the two men it was not so striking that they could have been taken for each other under any circumstances. My husband was about five feet nine inches in height while his brother was over six feet tall and the brother wore a mustache at that time and my husband was smooth shaven. My husband had had his nose broken while at college when engaging in strenuous athletic sports and this gave his face an identity that could not be mistaken. 'William Deane-Tanner disappeared about a year after I saw him and my husband grieved terribly over the strange occurrence and missed his brother very much. I went to see his wife at the time. She was a very beautiful blonde with light golden hair and the most perfect skin and very slender. She seemed perfectly dazed with wonder as to why he had left her. 'I was married in 1907 and for five years my husband was everything that the most exacting or the most idealistic wife could demand or desire. He was tender, thoughtful, generous, patient, clean-minded and the soul of honor. Suddenly I was taken ill and the doctor said I must be sent to California. This distressed my husband so that we decided to try the Adirondacks first to see if the mountain air there would not bring me back to health and strength. So my husband helped me pack, looked after every arrangement for the trip and took me and our two little children up to a comfortable, picturesque house in the mountains and then went back to his business. in a few days I got a big express package with some heavier flannels for me and an immense box of candy, all tied up with fancy ribbons. 'William Deane-Tanner was called 'Petie' by his intimate associates in New York. I do not know who gave him the name and I do not think the brothers saw each other often. My husband did not come out with his brother when he came to see me as he was at his place of business and could not leave. But there was no possibility of their being the same man. 'That was the last communication I ever received from my husband. He never wrote a line to me after leaving me there and I never saw him again. This was nearly four years after the disappearance of his brother. After his brother left, his mother and sister, in London, with whom I corresponded, often wrote of how they were grieving over William's strange dropping from sight. His mother said she was sure he must be dead or that she would hear from him. When my husband disappeared and I wrote them they never answered my letters and though I wrote a number of times I have never heard from them again and lost track of them. 'It is true that my husband had the same fits of despondency that William is said to have had. He would have depressed, gloomy spells that I could neither account for nor make him shake off. He rarely spoke of his people in England, but I merely attributed that to the characteristic reticence of the English to discuss their affairs and I never had any reason to suspect that there was any tragedy or skeleton in the family that he was hiding. 'The only other time I ever saw William Deane-Tanner was when I went to ask him if he had ever seen or heard from my husband. He was so very stern and repelling and acted so like a man of stone that I was chilled and hurt, but I wrote to him and told him the reasons and proof by which I knew he was the man I claimed him to be. It was after that that he began sending me the allowance. The way I came to hear of him being out here friends of mine in New York saw him on the screen and recognized his face and learned that he was now a director at Lasky's. 'His sister's name was Mrs. Eaudel-Phillips and I gathered that they were people of independent means though not extremely wealthy. Both my husband and his brother were educated at Clifton and were then sent to Germany and France to finish their education and my husband spoke both French and German fluently.' Mrs. Deane-Tanner spoke of little mannerisms that the brothers had in common, such as holding a cigarette in a peculiar way, and of tossing the head back. She said that in disposition and temperament, in education, tastes and habits they were much the same, and she stated that although her husband saw but little of his brother, he was very deeply attached to him, and that after the brother's disappearance her husband grew more and more moody.
1922-02-07	In William D. Taylor's effects two love letters, written in a school- girl code, were found. One of them is reproduced above. It is a code familiar to thousands of youngsters. The letter reads as follows. 'I love you--oh, I love you so. 'I had to come down because mama remarked that I always seemed to feel rather happy after being out with you. So here I am. Camouflage. 'Furthermore, I am feeling unusually fine (more camouflage). I will see you later. God love you as I do.'
1922-02-07	The story of a wonderful love. A young girls' adoration beating its timorous wings under the shadow of impending calamity. When a carefully treasured letter fluttered from the pages of a book, Thursday, it revealed a love idyll charming in its conception, dramatic in its development, peculiarly sad in its unfullfilment. The love story of Mary Miles Minter and William Desmond Taylor. Out of the cloud of circumstances brought to light by the murder of the famous director shines the clear ray of this remarkable romance between the cultured, dignified man of 50 and the beautiful ingenue of 19. In the search of Mr. Taylor's effects, conducted the morning after he met his mysterious death, chance played a freakish role. The examination virtually had been concluded. One of the investigators, selecting a book from the case at random, idly fluttered the pages. Out dropped a letter. He picked it up and found it to be an ingenuous love letter written on heavily embossed stationery. 'Dearest: I love you--I love you--I love you,' it read. And below this reiterated sentence appeared a line of crosses followed by a single cross, heroic in size. At the end it said, 'Yours always. Mary.' And on the wings and body of the butterfly crest appeared the words, 'Mary Miles Minter.' Miss Minter did not deny the authorship of the letter. 'I did love William Taylor,' she said. 'I loved him deeply and tenderly, with all the admiration and respect a young girl gives to a man with the poise and culture of Mr. Taylor.'...
1922-02-07	Detective Sergeants Cato and Cahill last night were questioning one of the most widely known motion picture actresses in the entire profession, expecting to secure vital information upon what several of the investigators believe to be the overshadowing theory in the William D. Taylor case. This theory is that a man who was in love with the actress in question, having the motive of jealousy, may have acted in response to the promptings of a wounded heart. Six headquarters men spent more than two yours late yesterday afternoon receiving the details of a story believed to be of great possible significance from C. M. Meister, a driver for the Yellow Taxicab Company. Meister was brought to police headquarters by S. Cooper, assistant general manager of the company. The narrative was, in substance, as follows: 'On last Wednesday night at 10:55 o'clock I picked up four passengers at 620 South Broadway--two men and two women. 'Upon entering the cab one of the men pulled up the window between themselves and me, apparently, so that I might not overhear their conversation. 'I drove them to a number in the Wilshire district. (The Examiner is in possession of this number, but is withholding it for the present at the request of the police.) 'One of the men and the two women left the cab and went into the apartment house. I afterwards learned that their apartment was on the second floor. 'The other man remained in the cab and asked me to drive him to the Ambassador Hotel. I did so. He was in the hotel about fifteen minutes. He came out, carrying a leather brief case. 'Shortly after entering the cab he appeared to show the greatest anxiety concerning this brief case. He handed it to me and said, 'I want you to deliver that. For God's sake, don't lose it.' 'His order to me was, 'Drive to 400 Alvarado street. At least, that was the number I caught. There was a 400 in it, but I am not sure whether it was the even number.' Taylor, it will be recalled, lived at 404-B South Alvarado. 'I said to him,' continued Meister, ''Don't you mean 400 ------ street,' naming it. ''Sure,' he said; 'I made a mistake.' 'He asked me several times if the brief case was safe. I said it was. But he was very uneasy. 'Give it to me,' he said, and he took it and put it beside him. 'When we reached the Santa Monica carline--at Santa Monica boulevard and Western avenue, I think it was, he asked me to stop. ''I'm going to take the car here,' he said. 'You will please deliver this,' and he handed me the brief case. ''There'll be a woman looking out the upstairs window waiting for it,' he told me. 'I drove directly to the number on ----- street. Immediately upon my arrival a woman rushed out and asked, 'Have you got it? Did he put it in a box?' 'I said, 'I guess this is what you mean,' and I gave her the brief case. 'Just then a man came running from the side of the house; he was the man I had let out there with the two women. 'He got into the cab. 'Drive me around,' he said--'just keep going around the block! 'I drove him around three or four blocks and then returned to the apartment house. There was a car--a roadster in front. 'When he saw this he became very much excited. 'Don't let them see me,' he said. 'Drive around again.' 'So I drove him around several blocks the second time. The car was still there when we returned, and in even greater excitement he said, 'Don't let them see me. Keep on driving until that car is gone.' 'Upon coming back the third time he asked, 'Is the car still there?' ''Yes,' I said, 'but they are turning on the light. I guess they are getting ready to leave.' 'Just then a street car passed us. 'Keep behind this car,' he said, 'so they won't see me.' 'But the street car went farther on than I had counted on and when we came opposite the roadster, which was then leaving, we were in plain view. 'Upon seeing this my passenger gave an exclamation of alarm, fell to the floor and pulled down the curtain on the side towards the roadster. 'When we stopped at the apartment house he got out and said, 'I was a ----- fool to do this thing'' The police last night were preparing to go to this house and question the occupants. What strikes them with greatest force is that the man who figured in the dramatic attempt at concealment wore a muffler around his neck. It was the man in the muffler whom Mrs. Douglas MacLean saw leaving Taylor's house the night of the murder. If this man had anything to do with the crime, a new theory enters. This is that the murder may have been committed between the time Meister took the four persons to the Wilshire street address and the time the man wearing the muffler rushed out and asked to be driven around the block--in other words while the first man was away on his errand to the Ambassador Hotel. Taylor's house is four blocks west of the home mentioned by the taxi driver. It would be possible to go from Taylor's apartment to this one through alleys, thus eluding detection. If Meister's passenger had anything to do with the crime, then, the police say, he must have called on Taylor soon after Mabel Normand left, probably had a talk with the film director and went away. Then came the episode of the brief case, which is supposed to have contained letters once possessed by Taylor and now missing. There was sufficient time while the first man had gone to the Ambassador for a person to have walked from the Wilshire street address to Taylor's house, committed the crime and returned. The only apparent discrepancy is as to the time the shot was fired. The police yesterday were taking a new view of this subject. Testimony that a shot was heard about 8 o'clock was so uncertain, they said, that no great reliance could be placed in it. On the other hand, a person has been found who heard a shot somewhere near 11 o'clock. The man with the muffler, it was learned yesterday, left for San Francisco the day following the murder. The police were greatly impressed with Meister's story, particularly those parts describing the actors in this mysterious drama as exceedingly nervous. First, the man who went to the hotel was excited and nervous over the brief case. The woman who rushed out to receive it was excited to the point of agitation. The man with the muffler was in a state of frenzy almost about being seen by the person or persons in the roadster. The woman who took the brief case is described as about 30. Meister took her to be a motion picture actress. The man who went to the Ambassador was about 30, of the business man type. The tall man in the muffler was about 35 and Meister supposed he was a motion picture actor. None of the Sheriff's officers seriously entertains the opinion that Edward F. Sands, discharged secretary-valet of Taylor, was the assassin. This is in contradiction to the strongly expressed opinion yesterday of Captain of Detectives David L. Adams. 'I am now completely convinced,' said Captain Adams, 'that Sands is the man we want. I believe it was he who committed the crime. 'We have today established important facts which enable us to reconstruct the crime with what we believe is absolute accuracy. 'Experiments made by our own and outside gun experts demonstrate beyond question that the shot which killed Taylor was fired from a distance of not more than an inch or two from his body. 'We have made many tests with the coat which he wore when the shot struck him down. In the test which produces a hole similar to that already appearing in the coat the muzzle of the revolver was held an inch from the garment. 'When Taylor was shot he had his left arm up. 'We believe that the murderer ordered 'Hands up!' and shot him when he obeyed that command. 'The way I re-frame the picture is this: Sands was lurking around waiting for an opportunity to enter the house, possibly for robbery, and it may have been for some deeper purpose which we have not fathomed. 'The known facts concerning the attitude of this man towards Taylor convince me that we do not know the whole story; we are still far from explaining, for instance, why Sands sent Taylor the pawn ticket and the letter signed 'Alias Jimmy V.' We are also in the dark as to why Sands used Taylor's old name, 'Deane-Tanner,' when he pawned the stolen jewelry. 'Either when or after Taylor accompanied Miss Normand to her car, leaving the front door open, this man slipped into the house. And when the director entered he was there, covering Taylor with his revolver. 'It is possible that Sands went there to secure something--a letter or a document, perhaps--and that he actually did carry away something. 'It is urged against the Sands theory that he would have robbed the dead body, would have stripped off the diamond ring, extracted the money from the pockets and taken the platinum watch. 'I have no doubt he would have done so under ordinary circumstances, as his whole career proves him to be a thief, but this situation was extraordinary. Without having purposed to do so, it may be, he murdered his former master. 'And then, panic-stricken, he hurried from the house, his terror overcoming for the moment his natural instinct to rob.' Although Captain Adams urges his theory with great earnestness, a number of the men working under him do not accept his view of the crime. They cannot conceive that Sands, if he were the man, would have passed over jewelry and money worth nearly $2000 and to be had for the stooping down and taking. However, Captain Adams yesterday issued this instruction: 'Find Edward F. Sands. Whether he is the murderer or not, he must be eliminated.' The identity of the person who extracted the Mabel Normand letters from Taylor's effects remained as much of a mystery yesterday as on the first day of the investigation. It is believed that a man of high position and great influence in the motion picture world found and took these, and others, thinking their discovery would injure the fortunes of actresses in whom he has a business interest. Public Administrator Frank Bryson yesterday admitted that he did not know where they were nor who took them. 'When our representative arrived at the Taylor home Thursday morning,' said Mr. Bryson, 'the room was filled with detectives, motion picture people and reporters, and the premises were swarming with them. 'This office took over all property, effects and documents involved in the estate. Naturally all letters he left belonged to the estate and it was illegal to remove anything. However, I do not understand that anything of money value was taken.' Several letters received yesterday by the police department and the Sheriff's office relating to the record of Henry Peavey, Taylor's colored valet, led Captain Adams to question the negro at greater length regarding his possible knowledge. Peavey is the man who found Taylor's body and gave the alarm. According to Captain Adams, Peavey said nothing new of importance. It is the natural assumption of the detectives and Sheriff's officers that Peavey must have known the persons who called on Taylor. He has stated, however, that only four or five persons called during his six month's service with the director. Among these were Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean and Mabel Normand. In trying to learn what persons were entertained, Sheriff's officers have made a widespread investigation. Yesterday, it is reported, they learned from a source what may or not be authentic--that is something being investigated--that a noted film actress who has been mentioned frequently in stories relating to the case, made several calls at Taylor's apartment at night. It is also asserted by this same person that the actress said she was engaged to marry Taylor; that, in fact, they were to be married within a few weeks. But about New Year's Taylor and the woman had a violent quarrel and the director returned home under stress to such great emotion that he broke down and cried. This actress is one of those who wrote many letters to the picture director, and it is her letters particularly about the disappearance of which the police are so curious. Following yesterday's discovery that the bullet was fired at short range, the theory of suicide was advanced. The absence of a weapon would appear to make this entirely untenable. Also, according to the findings of Dr. A. F. Wagner, county autopsy surgeon, it would have been practically impossible for Taylor to have shot himself in the manner employed. It is only by a wild flight of imagination that one could picture him as a suicide, the police say, because there would have to be discovered in this theory some person who entered the apartment after the tragedy and took the revolver away.
1922-02-07	There can be no girl who was jealous of Mr. Taylor's attentions to me. His attitude toward me was only that of a friend who fostered my interest in the better things of life--music, painting and books. 'We never spoke of love, neither of us was interested in the other in that way. If there was a girl with whom he was infatuated it surely was someone else, not I.' Mabel Normand, famous motion picture star, ill from the persistent questioning by those who are seeking to find some one who might have taken the life of William D. Taylor in a spirit of frenzied jealousy, vehemently denied yesterday any love element that existed between her and the slain director. 'Shortly after the inquest Saturday detectives investigating the case came to me and thanked me for my cooperation in aiding in the solving of this terrible tragedy,' she said. 'They told me they are thoroughly convinced it was an unfortunate coincidence that I was seen with him a short time before his murder. 'Everything that I know that might lead to detection of the murderer I have told them. And no one would welcome the apprehension of the culprit that committed that foul deed more than I. 'There have been insinuations made that I went to Mr. Taylor's house after the inquest Saturday to seek some of my letters to him. That is grossly erroneous. I went to the bungalow at the request of the detectives and in their company and solely for the purpose of showing to them the exact location of the furniture as it was placed in the room before I left. It was to show how disordered the place had become after the intrusion of the murderer. 'If Peavey, his colored servant, says that I had asked him about any girls that Mr. Taylor had ever been interested in, it is a venomous fabrication. Never in my life have I spoken to this man directly, and never have I talked to him in any way except in the presence of others, including Mr. Taylor. And as for the subject of girls--the question never entered my mind.' Miss Normand, heavy-lidded from lack of sleep, and worn from the grueling inquisitions to which she has been subjected since the murder, reiterated that no one welcomed the apprehension of the culprit more than she. As for the insinuations that Mr. Taylor had been an attendant at so- called 'dope' parties, she added another vehement denial. 'He loved clean, simple pleasures, not this sordid type,' she said. He was one of the most temperate men in his habits I have ever known. 'He sent me flowers, occasionally, yes. But it was only because he knew I loved them and like to have them about my house. But there never was an expression of love sent with them. He knew our friendship didn't extend to that--it was purely platonic, and like that of an older man interested in a girl who sought mental improvement, and the things that better one in the cultural world.'
1922-02-07	...In an effort to aid in Sands' arrest Charles Eyton, general manager of the film organization with which Taylor was formerly connected, today ordered the printing of 10,000 circulars giving a full description of the fugitive. These will be sent broadcast throughout the nation, it was announced...
1922-02-07	...As regarded the statement often made that Taylor was exclusively a man's man, it was said today by his former employees that such was not the case; that Taylor on numerous occasions talked to one screen actress for 30 minutes at a time over the telephone. He would also send lengthy letters to her in the middle of the day. He was said to have had many women friends.
1922-02-07	That William D. Taylor, murdered movie director, was held at the point of a pistol before he was murdered was the theory expressed by detectives Tuesday. In support of this theory, the police bring out these points: Taylor's shirt was pulled somewhat out of his belt. Holding his hands in the air while menaced with a revolver would account for that. The slayer evidently held the gun within three or four inches of Taylor's body, as powder marks on the clothing indicate. As Taylor fell, the assassin might have caught him and laid him on his back. The fact that there were no bruises on Taylor's head or body, which would have been caused had he fallen, accounts for this conjecture. Having his hands in the air would explain why the bullet missed Taylor's arm. The assassin evidently shot from the hip, the way of a two-gun bad man, the detectives point out, thus sending the bullet on its diagonal course through the ribs, heart and into the neck.
1922-02-07	...Guards surrounded the home of Mary Miles Minter, prominent film star and close friend of Taylor, Tuesday. Captain David L. Adams and the squad of eight police detectives who are working on the mystery, scattered to various parts of the city following a conference. They were working on a number of clues, any one of which may develop into something tangent. Before the detectives left police headquarters they subjected Henry Peavey, Taylor's Negro valet, to another questioning, but the valet was unable to tell them anything new. The four private detectives, who guarded the home of Mary Miles Minter on North Hobart boulevard, shooed all visitors away. They are supposed to have been hired by Miss Minter... A cigarette stub carelessly dropped in front of a garage at Temple and Hill streets may lead to the discovery of the murderer of Taylor. If the police could have laid hands on the man who dropped the bit of paper wrapped around a few shreds of tobacco the mystery that has baffled the entire country would be solved today. But the man slipped through their hands with a margin of only a few minutes between him and capture. The smoker, an indistinct figure, lounged in the doorway of the garage in the darkness of night. A man drove in with his automobile and the smoker stepped aside, casting away the cigarette. The driver, engaged in negotiating the doorway, did not once glance... But a few minutes later a policeman picked up the cigarette stub and examined it. It was gold-tipped and bore the special design seen only on the cigarettes made to order for Taylor. Nino Andrinie, editor of 'La Patria,' an Italian newspaper, was the motorist who drove into the garage while the man was lounging in the doorway. The policeman who found the cigarette stub awakened the editor at his apartments in the Alhambra a few hours later and questioned him. Andrinie could not give a good description of the man he saw. The police theory that Edward F. Sands, former secretary of the movie director may know who committed the murder, was strengthened greatly by the cigarette clue... 'If we can find Sands,' declared Captain David L. Adams, in charge of the police investigation, 'this mystery will be solved. Unless he can account for his whereabouts Wednesday night he will be under the strongest possible suspicion.' Telegraphic orders for the arrest of a man believed to be Sands were sent to Carlin, Nev., where a man answering his description is under surveillance. The arrest was expected today... The startling theory that Sands is in reality Taylor's missing brother, Dennis, was scouted as impossible today by Mrs. Ada Deane-Tanner, divorced wife of the missing man. Mrs. Deane-Tanner, when shown a photograph of Sands at her Monrovia home, pointed out points of dissimilarity which led to this theory, developed by detectives working on the baffling murder mystery, to be discarded. Sands is short and stocky, with plump, round face. Dennis Deane-Tanner was slender like his brother, and his clear-cut features much resembled those of the murdered director. Besides, Mrs. Deane-Tanner explained, her husband's nose had been broken in athletics, which gave him a noticeable mark. Neither could there be any possibility, according to her, that Taylor was her missing husband, playing a dual role. She and other friends who knew both brothers in New York, saw and talked to Taylor in Los Angeles and could not be deceived about his identity... So far two reported 'sons' of Taylor have been heard from and are being traced. One of the young men, about 25 years of age, introduced himself as a son of the eminent director when he took some manuscript to F. H. McDowell, associate editor of 'Screenland,' about two weeks ago. The police today were looking for the young man at the address which he left with McDowell. The other youth who claimed to be Taylor's son, was interviewed by a man who knew the movie director when the boy registered for war service at Columbia University, New York. The young man was reported as being very bitter towards Taylor, cursing at mention of his name. He did not say why he hated the man whom he represented as his father.
1922-02-07	...The visit of Mr. Eyton to the Detective Bureau was for the purpose of aiding in the search for Sands. Several witnesses who know the fugitive say they saw him in Los Angeles about the time of the shooting. At least two persons believe they saw him on the night of the shooting. One woman saw Sands within a block of the Taylor home within less than two hours of the time set for the murder. Capt. Adams in a statement to newspaper men declared that the entire case hinges on Sands. 'If we can locate Sands,' declared Capt. Adams, 'then we will be able once and for all to settle the question of his whereabouts on the night of the murder. If Sands cannot prove to our satisfaction where he was on Wednesday night between 7 and 8 o'clock we will then believe that we have found the right man.' ...Several women and three men, all of whom know Sands by sight, say that they saw him on the streets of the city during the last month. ...Police say Sands has lost some weight since he fled after the first robbery.
1922-02-07	...Dr. H. M. S. Maddock, who was the examining physician for the Canadian recruiting mission throughout the period of the war, and who is a Los Angeles resident, examined William Desmond Taylor for Canadian [British] army service. Facts obtained from Dr. Maddock concerning William Desmond Taylor's enlistment coincide with the records of W. D. Taylor found in the London War Office. The London dispatch states the enlistment of W. D. Taylor of 1127 Orange Street, Los Angeles, was attested to in Chicago, July 3, 1918. Dr. Maddock, though he does not remember the date, stated last night that it was a very hot day in July, 1918, when William Desmond Taylor entered the recruiting office in the San Fernando Building for his medical examination. 'I remember the man well,' he said. 'I did not usually examine personally, the recruits. Most of them were ordinary men, such as we see daily on the streets, many shabbily dressed. Mr. Taylor was different from the ordinary man, so I examined him personally. He was a man of fine physique for his age, one of the best physical specimens I had yet seen. 'Mr. Taylor, as was the rule, was then sent to San Francisco for a second examination. He did not accompany the other recruits, whose railroad fare was always paid by the recruiting mission. He paid his own fare to San Francisco and went alone. No one had accompanied him to the Los Angeles recruiting office on the day of his enlistment. He was alone. 'The war record shows he was entered into the service at Chicago on July 3, 1918, I am told. That is not unusual for the recruits, after passing examinations at San Francisco, were sent either to Vancouver or to Chicago for their final medical examinations. At the place where this third medical examination is passed, the recruit is then taken into the service. I think Mr. Taylor went to Chicago.'
1922-02-07	A chauffeur employed by the Yellow Taxicab Company last night gave officers investigating the murder of William Desmond Taylor, slain film director, what was regarded as one of the hottest leads thus far uncovered in the attempts to solve the mystery of the fatal shooting last Wednesday night. This chauffeur, who was taken in tow at once by Detective Sergeants King, Cato and Cahill, is named Meister and is reported to have taken a party from the vicinity of the shooting soon after the slaying. He was accompanied on his trip to the detective bureau by Sidney Glover, an official of the taxicab company. Captain of Detective Adams declined to discuss the new phase of the case. Earlier in the day he talked with the two new witnesses. They were not to be found last night, and were declared to be with the two detective sergeants. Several new angles in the investigation were opened up yesterday by deputy sheriffs working under the personal direction of Sheriff Traeger, Undersheriff Biscailuz and Criminal Superintendent Al Manning. While Mr. Manning refused to disclose what lines the Sheriff's investigation is taken, he admitted his officers, Deputies Harvey Bell and Fox and Nolan, were following leads that have developed new aspects of the murder mystery. 'I cannot state at this time what we are working on, but the information uncovered by this office is very significant and is vital to the solution of the crime,' Mr. Manning said late last night. Centering their efforts on finding Edward F. Sands, suspect in the investigation of the murder, detectives on the case yesterday followed several clews while Captain of Detective Adams held secret conferences with at least four important witnesses... Twice during the day all the detectives working on the case were called together in conference with Capt. Adams. They all declared they are concentrating their efforts toward finding Sands, the former employee of Mr. Taylor and an asserted robber and forger for whose arrest Mr. Taylor swore out a warrant. Few definite concrete developments were noticeable as a result of the day's activities. Further facts concerning the past and mysterious life of the slain man were uncovered. Many supposed clews were checked by the officers and found valueless. Charles Eyton, manager for the Famous Players-Lasky studio, where Mr. Taylor, a director of international reputation, was under contract, held a long talk with Capt. Adams. Henry Peavey, negro houseman who discovered the body of his employer, also was a visitor at the police station. Late in the day it was declared by the officers that missing letters known to have been kept by Mr. Taylor shortly before his death have an important bearing, in their belief, on the case. Among these letters were several written by Mabel Normand, film star, to Mr. Taylor. Everyone questioned by Capt. Adams concerning the letters has denied having them or removing them from the Taylor apartment on South Alvarado street, where his body was found last Thursday morning. Mr. Eyton, who was one of the first outsiders called to the scene, again yesterday said he had not seen them. Miss Normand last Saturday called at the house for her letters. She has not seen those which she wrote. Public Administrator Bryson, who has charge of the estate, says he has not seen them. The District Attorney's Office makes similar avowal. The visit of Mr. Eyton to the Detective Bureau was for the purpose of aiding in the search for Sands. Several witnesses who know the fugitive say they saw him in Los Angeles about the time of the shooting. At least two persons believe they saw him on the night of the shooting. One woman saw Sands within a block of the Taylor home within less than two hours of the time set for the murder... The investigation has simmered down to a process of elimination, with the finding of Sands as the first obstacle. Hundreds of theories, tips and clews have been investigated, weighed and discarded or added to the chain of circumstances being assembled by the detectives. During the day, representatives of Mabel Normand, who was the last friend who saw Mr. Taylor alive last Wednesday, called at the police station to tell the detectives that Miss Normand was going to have her telephone number changed to avoid the continual stream of calls made for her recently. The pink silk nightgown--a delicate, lacy piece of woman's lingerie-- that was found in the bachelor apartments of the slain man yesterday held attention of many persons. The garment was one of several formerly at the house, according to the statement of a former employee, and was there during the six months Peavey worked there. Employees preceding Peavey declared that the silken things so strange to a man's wardrobe were used occasionally, or at least were taken from their accustomed places, unfolded and replaced. Reports were circulated during the day that the owner of the night dress had been identified as an actress friend of the dead man. No official confirmation of this could be obtained. The garment, known to have been at the home on the morning the body was found, was not available for public scrutiny. The comment made by Mr. Eyton regarding the missing letters was as follows: 'I have taken no letters from Mr. Taylor's home the day the body was found, nor have I taken any, or had any letters given me by anyone since. There were a number of papers and documents there. I watched the representative of the Public Administrator's office sort the papers. It was more than a half-hour after the body was found that I arrived there. In the meantime scores of persons went through the house.' Mr. Eyton joined Capt. Adams and Public Administrator Bryson in the opinion that if any of Mabel Normand's letters were taken away from the Taylor home, they were taken by the man who killed Taylor or by some friend of Miss Normand who wanted to return them to the comedy star. 'I have no interest in any of these letters,' Mr. Eyton continued. 'If I had them I would turn them over to the police, because I am interested only in one thing, and that is the capture of the man who murdered 'Bill' Taylor, my friend. I hardly think, however, that there was anything in the missing letters that would be of any assistance in the search for the slayer.'... Several women and three men, all of whom knew Sands by sight, say that they saw him on the streets of the city during the last month. None of them spoke to him and several of them under close questioning by the police admit that they may have been mistaken...
1922-02-07	When William Desmond Taylor, noted film director, was shot to death in his South Alvarado street apartment last Wednesday night, he was standing with his arms lifted over his head and a .38-caliber revolver pressed against his side, some six inches below his left armpit and toward the back. Such is the new theory of the police advanced yesterday for the first time. They base their belief on a careful examination made yesterday of the clothing worn by the noted motion picture man when he fell, mortally wounded, to the floor of his living-room, about 8 o'clock Wednesday night. In a conference of the detectives working on the case, including Police Detective King of the District Attorney's office as well as the officers detailed from the detective bureau, a minute inspection of the garments was made. The hole through which the bullet entered was powder-marked. The marking was of such a nature that they decided conclusively he was shot by a revolver held pressed against his coat. By comparing the entrance of the bullet in the coat, and in the vest, a remarkable new fact was disclosed. The holes do not correspond in location when the coat is adjusted normally about the wearer. But when the arm was raised the hole in the coat was brought up to the corresponding hole in the vest. This fact led to the definite conclusion of the investigators that when Mr. Taylor was shot down he knew he was being attacked, that he was compelled to hold his arms overhead by the assailant. The discovery of the new-found facts did not change the police theory that the slayer slipped into the house by the front door while Mr. Taylor was absent for a few minutes. At that time he was escorting Miss Mabel Normand, celebrated film actress, to her automobile, after she had made a short call for the purpose of getting a book. During the temporary absence of Mr. Taylor, the assassin stepped quickly into the house and crouched behind the door, the police believe. From this position he had the drop on the film director when the latter re-entered and closed the door. That he ordered Mr. Taylor to put up his hands is now the belief of the officers. And while the victim was standing in this position he was shot to death, probably after a conversation, if the slaying was done for revenge. Some of the officers believe the shot could have made the same entrance holes in the coat and vest if Mr. Taylor was bending over to seize a chair at his writing desk in order to defend himself against the intruder. To support this belief they point to the overturned chair found in the apartment--the only suspicion that an attempted struggle was staged. To verify the belief the revolver was pressed against the coat when fired, Detective King took some of the clothing and experimented with shots fired from various distances. This confirmed the theory, he said. The piece of lead which penetrated Mr. Taylor's lung and all but went completely through his body was positively identified as having been fired from a .38-caliber, short, soft-nosed cartridge. This type of shell is commonly used, although it will not fit an automatic weapon.
1922-02-07	Mrs. Ada Deane-Tanner...declared here today... 'I would like to correct published statements about my husband, Dennis. He never associated with other women. 'I feel confident that if Dennis is alive his existence could not possibly have any connection with the murder. The brothers were very much devoted to each other.'
1922-02-07	Los Angeles, Feb. 6--A pale pink nightgown of filmy silk, trimmed with lace, positively identified as the property of a certain famous motion picture star--whose name has already been mentioned in connection with the murder at his home here last Wednesday night of William Desmond Taylor, photo- play director--is now in the possession of the police and may play a dominant part in a solution of the mystery of Taylor's death. Other developments of the day were an assertion by Taylor's valet that Mabel Normand had told him she was going to marry the picture director, and renewed search for a young New York man now supposed to be at the Mexican border. The nightgown, previously described to the police by servants of the slain director, disappeared from Taylor's apartment on the day after the murder, but was found today after a diligent search by the authorities investigating the tragedy... In this case, it is said, the star to whom the nightgown is believed to belong is not a comedienne. The police do say the article has been identified positively as the property of a 'celebrated motion picture star,' however. A laundry mark of three letters gave police their clues to the ownership of the dainty garment. It had been kept in a box in a drawer of Taylor's dresser, Henry Peavey, negro valet of the murdered director, admitted. Peavey told the police, under pressure, that the gown had mysteriously disappeared the day after the murder. It was not until late today that it turned up, in the hands of a police detective who had been working independently on the case. This detective obtained what he declared to be positive identification of the nightgown. The injection of the woman film star into the mystery gives rise to more speculation about the identity of the assassin, as it enlarges the field of suspects to include all of the many men admirers of the girl, for at the present time the police view every intimate friend of the women who were known to be close associates of Taylor as a potential enemy and possible murderer through the jealousy which Taylor's attachment may have aroused...
1922-02-07	PRESS FILM STAR FOR TAYLOR CLEW Police Conduct'Long and Grueling' Examination, working on Jealousy Motive. MABEL. MORMAMD SPEAKS  Tellis Reporters Affections for Slain Director was Based on Comradeship, Not 'Love.' LOs ANGELES, Feb. 6.A motion picture actress was subjected to what the police termed a "long and grueling" examination at her home here tonight in an attempt to obtain a clew to the murderer of William Desmond Taylor. The actress was said to be widely known, but her name was withheld by the police, Two detective sergeants examined her. What they learned they kept to themselves. They admitted they were seeking to develop the previously advanced theory that Taylor had been slain by a jealous rival for the affections of the actress. Mabel Normand, who was among the last persons to see Taylor alive, made a number of declarations "on her word of honor" to newspaper interviewers today. Not in "Love" with Taylor. "Were you ever in love with Taylor?" they asked her. "Not in the way one means when he uses the expression "in love," On my word of honor, no," she said. "Get it straight. Our friendship was based on comradeship and understanding." "Did you know any woman who might have been jealous of you-who might have loved Taylor?" "On my word of honor, no." "Or any man who might have been jealous of the place he occupied in your esteem?" "On my word of honor, no." "It has been hinted he gave drug parties. Did you ever hear of them" "Never in God's world, never, on my word of honor." After some questions, she said: "And, oh please, say that I never heard of that pink silk night robe they say is missing from Mr. Taylor's apartments." "But Henry Peavey, the negro houseman, said " " He ought to be ashamed of himself for saying I asked him about other girls. going to Mr. Taylors house," she exclaimed. I saved him his job once when Mr. Taylor wanted to fire him," If Sands, the missing butler, can be found the complaint against him chargeing grand larceny, made by Taylor and now in the hands of the police, will be dropped, it was announced tonight by Captain Adams, who stated that as Taylor was dead the case could not be taken to court. Therefore, he added, if Sands could clear himself of all connection with Taylor's death no other charge would be placed against him. Adams said he had information which led him to believe that regardless of where Sands might have been last Wednesday night he was not in Los Angeles at present. He said none of the persons who had stated Sands was in the city just before the murder had said they had talked with him. Several women with whom Sands was said to have been friendly have been interviewed by the police, and all are reported to have stated that they had neither seen nor heard from him for months. Investigate Chautfeur's Clue. An unidentified "party of men" was driven to the neighborhood of the Taylor apartment the night be was murdered, according to a story told the police today by a taxicab driver. What else the chauffeur told the police they did not make public, but it was known that in the search for the slayer of the motion picture director, the detectives examined six men today. These included Charles Eyton, general manager of the Famous Players-Lasky Company, by which Taylor had been employed, and Henry Peavey, negro house servant of the head dirctor. The examination of the four unnamed men including the chauffeur, was in furtherance of the search for Edward F. Sands, or Edward Fitz Strathmore, the missing butler. The chauffeur's suspicions were said to have been aroused after reading of the murder, and he communicated his  knowledge to the police, He and a companion were in secret conference with the police several hours and during that period took a hurried automobile ride with the detectives. Two of the four men were said to have entered into the investigation for the first time today. Twice during the day all the detectives working on the case were called together in conference with Captain Adams, They said they were concentrating their efforts in an attempt to locate Sands. Mr. Eyton had a long talk with Captain Adams, and Peavey was examined again. Late in the day the detectives asserted letters known to have been in Taylor's possession just before his death, in addition to those said to have been written by Mabel Normand and sought by her in vain at his apartment after his body was found, were missing. No one examined by the police so far has admitted any knowledge of the whereabouts of the missing letters. Eyton said he had not seen them. Miss Normand stated she had not. The Public Administrator, who has charge of the Taylor estate, said he had not seen them, and the District Attorney made a like statement. Eyton's visit to the Central Police Station, it was said, was in relation to the efforts to find Sands. Eyton aided the police in obtaining photographs  of Sands, but no really good portraits of him are available, it is said. It was determined today that the bullet that killed Taylor was fired from a distance of a very few inches. This was taken as evidence that the assassin did not conceal himself in some part of the room and fire from a distance of ten or more feet, and it was also taken to indicate that the overturned chair might have been upset in a brief struggle between Taylor and his slayer. The facts in relation to Taylor's change of name from that of William Cunningham Deane-Tanner are also being studied. It is generally believed, however, that this was due to Taylor's desire to be free from his former family relations, and to the ordinary custom of screen and stage stars and workers whereby they assume any name that happens to appeal to them. Early today police and attachs of the Sheriff's office again examined the dead man's papers in the hope of obtaining a better clue than any yet evolved." George Milo, the motion picture actor, who was taken from his work last night and examined as to his whereabouts at the time of the shooting, was freed of all connection with the case, as the result of his statement and the investigation that later verified his story. "Mr. Taylor loved Mabel Normand, but I do not believe that she returned his love to any great extent," Harry Peavey, houseman for Taylor, is reported to have told representatives of The Los Angeles Times. "I was in Mr. Taylor's home for almost six months, and I know that Mr. Taylor was very much in love with Miss Normand. At times I thought that she returned his love and then again it seemed to me that she was tired of him. "One night, almost a month before Mr. Taylor was killed, Miss Normand came to the house for dinner. After dinner I passed through the front room while they were talking, and she stopped me and told me that she and Mr. Taylor were to be married. He was sitting there and did not say a word. She wanted to know if I would work for them. She never came often. While I worked there she was there only about a dozen times. She was there the night before the murder and the night of the murder. I know she was there Tuesday night, the night before the murder, because she told me so. Mr. Taylor wrote a letter to Miss Normand almost every day of the week. His driver would take notes to Miss Normand's home by automobile after breakfast in the mornings. He sent flowers to her three days a week. "Once Miss Normand asked me what other girls had dined with Mr. Taylor. I told her there was only one. She asked me the name, and I told her: "Miss Normand." She laughed and said that Mr. Taylor had me well trained. Miss Normand was with Mr. Taylor the last time I saw him alive. My master asked me to mix up some cocktails, and I did. I placed the liquor in the shaker on a tray with two glasses, and Mr. Taylor and Miss Normand were drinking when I left for the evening. They both said goodnight to me and I left the house. When I next saw Mr. Taylor, the next morning, he was dead on the floor of his living room. Search for New Yorker. The jealousy theory, the police and private detectives reported, was causing a search to be made for a prominent young New York man, formerly engaged to a film star. This man was reported today to have checked out of a hotel here on the day of the murder and to have left the City the following afternoon. He is believed to have headed for San Diego and possibly to have crossed the border into Mexico. His name is withheld. The actress to whom he was at one time engaged, according to investigators, was a close friend of the slain director, and in this friendship, they say, they see a possible motive for jealousy which might lead to murder. The police today were looking for the pink silk nightgown missing from Taylor's home. Sands Reported in Nevada. A man said to answer the description of Sands, the missing butler, is in Carlin, Nev,, tonight, according to messages received by the Los Angeles police tonight. Not. Listed at Fusilier Officer. Copyright, 1922, by The Chicago Tribune Co. LONDON, Feb. 6. William Desmond Taylor was never an officer attached to the Fifth Battalion of the Royal Fusiliers, according to the official records of the Fusiliers, who are now stationed at Hounslow Barracks, London, where the Adjutant searched through 46,000 names of officers and men of the regiment who were in the World War at the request of The Chicago Tribune today. The official record lists, however, "W. D. Taylor. address 1,127 Orange Street, Los Angeles, aged 41: profession, director: Born Cork, Ireland: height. 5 feet 11 inches: British subject: enlistment attested at Chicago, July 3. 1918, by the British Recruiting Mission in  America. The next official trace of Taylor is when he arrived at Hounslow Barracks, Dec. 2, 1918, after the armisfice, as a private in the ranks of the  Royal Fusiliers, coming in a draft of 500 Britishers who had enlisted in America. A veteran enlisted man of the regiment remembers that Taylor said he was Mary Pickford's director. Taylor was at Hounslow three days, and is said to have been Acting Regimental Quartermaster Sergeant. On Dec. 5, 1918, he he was transferred to the army service corps at the Expeditionary Force canteen on Victoria Street, London. Praises Taylor as Soldier. William Desmond Taylor, the moving picture director murdered in Hollywood. won the affection and respect of every one who came in contact with him while he was in the British Army, and Stuart E. Cooling of 2,374 Third Avenue, Provost Sergeant of the camp where Taylor entered the service, swore that no matter what any one said about Bill Taylor he would never believe scandal in connection with him. Cooling was on duty in Ireland in 1887 with the Fourth Hussars and is sure that Dr. Deane-Tanner, a friend and associate of Parnell and an infiuential man in the old Nationalist Party. was an uncle of Taylor or William Cunningharm Deane-Tanner his right name, Taylor, he said, "came to Camp Fort Edward at Windsor, Nova Scotia, in the Summer of 1919 with other recruits. I was Provost Sergeant. He was very quick to learn and became a Lance Corporal in two weeks, a Corporal in three weeks, a Sergeant in five weeks. and a company Sergeant Major in two months. Then we went to England and he got a Lieutenant's commission in the Army Service corps of the British Army. His men worshipped himwould do anything for him. We N. C. O.'s, his pals, always found him a man who never thought of himself, who was always helping the underdog, those who had less than he had. I wouidn't believe wrong of him, no matter what anybody said."  
1922-02-07	...William Desmond Taylor was never an officer attached to the 5th battalion of the Royal Fusiliers, according to the official record of the fusiliers, who are now stationed at Hounslow barracks, London, where the adjutant searched through forty-six thousand names of officers and men of the regiment participating in the World War. ...[Taylor] arrived at Hounslow barracks December 2, 1918, coming in a draft of 500 Britishers who had enlisted in America...On December 5, 1918, he was transferred to the Army Service Corps at the Expeditionary Force Canteen on Victoria Street, London.
1922-02-07	New York, Feb. 6--Lila Wylie, the beautiful actress who entered the limelight in New York last spring in connection with the 'international blackmail ring' expose following the shooting of John Reid, wealthy manufacturer, is sought for questioning in the Taylor murder case in Los Angeles, it was learned today. Miss Wylie's possible connection with the mystery is said to be linked with that of 'Dapper Don' Collins, also sought by the Los Angeles police. The authorities expect her to shed considerable light on her own activities as they concerned William Desmond Taylor during the weeks just preceding the murder. Miss Wylie disappeared from Los Angeles on the day the Taylor murder was discovered. She is not suspected of the crime, but the police expect her knowledge of Taylor to aid them. The police say they have traced her movements to Miami, Fla., where she is supposed to be registered at a fashionable resort hotel...
1922-02-07	GRILL FILM ACTRESS Unnamed Woman Cross-questioned in Taylor 's Death. MEN NEAR MURDER SCENE Chauffeur Tells of Driving "Party;" Six Under Examination. Missing New Yorker Now Sought. Actor Arrested Sunday Is Freed. Must Find Sands, Slain Man's Butler, Say Officers, Who Are Working on Elimination Theory. More Letters Declared Missing.   (By the Associated Press.) Los Angeles, Calif., Feb. 6. -A motion picture actress was subjected to what the police termed a "long and gruelling" questioning at her home here tonight in an attempt to obtain a clew to the murder of William Desmond Taylor, director. The actress was said to be widely known, but her name was withheld by the police. Two detective sergeants questioned her. What they learned they kept to themselves, but they admitted they were seeking to develop the previously advanced theory that Taylor had been slain by a jealous rival for the affections of the actress.   New Theory of Murder. A new theory as to the exact manner in which William Desmond Taylor was slain last Wednesday night, was advanced tonight. Detectives said they were convinced the director was standing with his hands above his head when a 88 calibre pistol was pressed against his side, about six inches below the left arm-pit and toward the back. They based this theory on a careful examination today of the clothing worn by the director at the time he was shot. The holes in the coat and in the vest do not correspond as to location when the coat is adjusted normally. When the sleeves were raised the hole in the coat was brought up to the hole in the vest.   Drove Party of Men. An unidentified "party of men" was a driven to the vicinity of the apartments of Taylor the night he was murdered, according to the story told the police by a taxicab deriver. What else the chauffeur told the police the latter did not make public but it was known that in the search, for the slayer of the motion picture director, detectives questioned six men today. These include Charles Eyton, genneral manager of the Famous PlayersLasky company, by which Taylor had been employed, and Henry Peavey, negro house servant of the dead director. The questioning  of the four unnamed men, which included the chauffeur, was in furtherance of the search for Edward F. Sands, or Edward Fitz Strathmore, the missing former butler for Taylor.   Chauffeur Informs Police. The chauffeur 's suspicions were said to have been aroused after reading of the murder and he communicated his knowledge to the police. He and a companion were in secret conference with the police several hours, and during that period took a hurried automobile ride with the detectives. Two of the four men were said to have entered into the investigation for the first time today. Twice during the day all the detectives working on the case were called together in conference with Captain of Detectives David Adams. They declared they were concentrating their efforts in an attempt to locate Sands. Mr. Eyton had a long talk with Capt. Adams and Peavey also was questioned again. Late in the day officers declared letters known to have been in Taylor 's possession shortly before his death, in addition, to those said to have been written by Mabel Normand, film actress, and sought by her in vain at his apartment after his body was found, were missing.   Not seen By Eyton. No one questioned by the police so far, has admitted any knowledge of their whereabouts. Eyton said he had not seen them. Miss Normand stated she had not. The public administrator, who has charge of the Taylor estate, said he had not seen the letters and the district attorney made a like statement. Eyton's visit to the central police station, it was said, is in connections with the efforts of the, officers to find Sands, who is said to have been near the Taylor apartment as little as two hours before the shooting. Eyton aided the officers in obtaining photographs of Sands, but no  really good picture of him is avail able, it is said. The investigation has simmered down to the process of elimination, according to Capt. Adams, hundreds of "tips" having come to the is police from various sources, solicited and unsolicited. Miss Normand, through a representative, announced today she planned to have her telephone number changed to avoid "the continual stream of calls" reaching her recently.   Must Capture Sands. "Edward F. Sands must be captured in order that his elimination may be  made complete or a charge entered against him," said Capt. David L Adams, in charge of the police investigation. CONTINUED ON FIFTH PAGE.   GRILL FLM ACTRESS   CONTINUED FROM FIRST PAGE. It was determined by police investigation today that the bullet that killed Taylor was fired point blank; that is, from a distance of a very few inches. This was taken as evidence that his assailant did not conceal himself in some other part of the room and fire from a distance of 10 or more feet: and it was also taken to indicate that the overturned chair might have been upset in a brief struggle between Taylor and his slayer. These salient points had emerged from a mass of contradictory stories and statements, some of which were based on theories, as yet unproven, that Taylor was engaged in clandestine affairs with various women.   Many persons questioned. So far, numerous people prominent in the motien picture world have had at least a slight connection with the affair. In this number may be listed  Mabel Normand, who was the last person to visit Mr. Taylor before the shooting occured. He escorted her to her automobile and returned to the room where he met his death, according to the facts so far established. Another widely known movie star, whose name was brought into the case was Mary Miles Minter, who had been a business and social acquaintance of the dead man and who was one of the first to be advised of his death. Then Charles Eyton, production manager at the Lasky studios, where Mr. Taylor was employed, was frequently named because he was one of the first to arrive at the scene after Henry Peavey, colored houseman, found the body: and because he was quite active in early investigation. Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean, also known in the screen world, told of having seen a an leave the Taylor house at the hour of the shooting: and various others, some approaching the magnitude of stars, and others from the owly extra ranks, have touched various angles of the affair.   Sands Name Always Up. In all these investigations, repeated reccurence of the name of Sands finally led to the declaration of Captain Adams that Sands' discovery was esential to further progress. Sands has not been seen here since the shooting, nor is there any definite proof that he was seen here immeditely preceding it. Officers said he might be concealing himself because he feared to face a grand larceny charge preferred against him by Taylor and still pending. This charge, they said, was no longer serious because without the testimony of Taylor conviction would be difficult, but they admitted that Sands might not realize this condition.   Seek Missing New Yorker. Jealousy, police and private detertives reported today, has directed search for a prominent young New York man, formerly engaged to ones of the beautiful stars of filmdom. This suspect was reported today to have checked out of a hotel here on the day of the murder and left the city the following afternoon. He is believed by investigators to have headed for San Diego and possibly erossed the border into Mexico. His name is withheld by the police.   Actor Is Set Free. George. Milo, motion picture actor who was taken from his work last night by deputy sheriffs and submitted to questioning as to his whereabouts at the time of the shooting of William Desmond Taylor. last Wednesday night, was freed of all connection with the case as the result of his statement and the investlgation that later verified his story. Henri Reineque, another actor, why has also served as a camera man, was questioned with Milo, but it wasnt stated that his story was desired merely as a check on that of tone other man, and that he had no other connection with the case.   it was impossible that William Desmond Taylor, the slain motion picture director, could have been her husband, Dennis. "It is absurd," she said. "I knew! build., Dennis was five feet nine inches, and William was about six feet. It couldnt be possible that they were the same man, for I met and knew them both, but my aunt Mrs. John Ketcham, of Buffalo, prob   ably did not meet them both. I could like to correct published statecwaents about my husband, Dennis. *He never associated with other one women. "I feel confident that if Dennis is esiyve, that his existence could not possibly have any connection with cease murder. The brothers were very match devoted to each other,"   Aunt sure of Ideatity. Buffalo, N. I. Feb. (.Mirs. John Ketcham, aunt of Mis. Ada Deane Tanner, of Monrovia, today expressed the belief that William Desmond braylor, slain cinema director, is in weality Dennis Deane Tanner and that Dennis Deane Tanner and Willam Cunningham Deane Tanner are otdfntical. Mrs. Ada Deane Tanner 's ireame was Ada Brennan. She was taochn in Buffalo and was married in Itdw York It years ago, Mrs. Ketchinarh said. "I met Dennis Deane Tanner in New York before he married Ada," hiafs. Ketcham continued. "Never did is hear of him having a brother. Nor said I ever hear of William Cunningessim Deane Tanner, supposed to be a "brother of the slain man. I am almost certain that he had no brother." As late photograph of Taylor was shown to Mrs. Ketcham today. She said it resembled Dennis Deane anner but she would not be positive about the identification, saying that She had not seen the man since he married her niece 16 years ago. Miss Brennan married Dennis Deane adanner in 1906. Two children were corn to them. Mrs. Deane Tanner 's health failed and it was while she was at a mountain resort that her husband disappeared. Later she moved to California.   Valet Sure Taylor Loved Miss Normand; Unrequ   Los Angeles, Feb. 6.-"Mr. Taylor loved Mabel Normand, but I do not believe that she returned his love to any "great extent," Harry Peavey, the Rouseman, is reported to have told representatives of the Los Angeles Times. "I was in Mr. Taylor 's house for almost six months and I know that Mr. Taylor was very much in love with Miss Normand. At times thought that she returned his love and then again it seemed to me that she was tired of him 'One night, almost a month before Mr. Taylor was killed, Miss Norman came to the house for dinner. After dinner I passed through the free room while they were talking and she stopped me and told me that she and Mr. Taylor were to be married. He was sitting there and did not say a word. She wanted to know if I would work for them. She never came often While I worked there she was on there about a dozen times "She was there the night before the murder and the night of the murder I know she was there Tuesday night the night before the murder, because she told me so. Mr. Taylor wrote his letter to Miss Normand almost every day of the week. His driver would take notes to Miss Normands home to her automobile after breakfast. He sent flowers to her three days a week. "Once Miss Normand asked me what other girls had dined with Mr. Taylor. told her there was only one. She asked me the name, and I told her. "Miss Normand," She laughed and said that Mr. Taylor had me well trained. Miss Normand was with Mr, Taylor the last time I saw him alive, and master asked me to mix up some coctails, and I did. I placed the liquor in the shaker on a tray with two glasses and Mr. Taylor and Miss Normand were drinking when I left for the evening. They both said good-night to me as I left the house, When I next saw Mr. Taylor, the next morning, he was dead on the fioor in his living  room.   Man Thought to Be Sands Held by Nevada Constable   Special to The Washington Post. Loss Angeles, Calif. Feb. 6.-Constable Beining. at Carlin, New, telephoned police headquarters tonight that he had a man answering the descr of Edward F. Sands, missing former valet of William Desmond Tayler, under arrest. Sands is want ed as a material witness in the myterious killing of the film direetor. Carlin is near Reno.   
1922-02-08	(letter written to Taylor by Mary Miles Minter) 'You Wonderful Man! I Want to Go Away With You--Alone,' Is Opening Here is another unsigned love letter, in cipher, found in the effects of William D. Taylor, the motion picture director. This letter would indicate the writer's deep love for Taylor. The code is known to thousands of youngsters: What shall I call you, you wonderful man. You are standing on the lot, the idol of an adoring company. You have just come over and put your coat on my chair. I want to go away with you, up in the hills or anywhere just so we'd be alone--all alone. In a beautiful little woodland lodge you'd be cook (as I can only make tea) and fetch the water and build the fire. Wouldn't it be glorious to sit in a big comfy couch by a cozy warm fire with the wind whistling outside trying to harmonize with the faint sweet strains of music coming from our victrola. And then you'd have to get up and take off the record. Of course, I don't mean that, dear. Did you really suppose I intended you to take care of me like a baby? Oh no, for this is my part. I'd sweep and dust (they make the sweetest, little dust caps, you know) and tie fresh ribbons on the snowy white curtains and feed the birds and fix the flowers, and, oh, yes, set the table and help you wash the dishes and then in my spare time I'd darn your socks. I'd go to my room and put on something soft and flowing, then I'd lie on the couch and wait for you. I might fall asleep for a fire always makes me drowsy--then I'd wake to find two strong arms around me and two dear lips pressed on mine in a long sweet kiss - (THE LAST PARAGRAPH OF THIS LETTER IS BEING WITHHELD BY THE EXAMINER FROM PUBLICATION AT THIS TIME)
1922-02-08	Declaring that he called William D. Taylor at 7:55 o'clock Wednesday night and, receiving no answer, went to the apartment of the film director, arriving there at 8:15 o'clock, rang the doorbell and still met with no response, Howard Fellows, chauffeur for the murdered director, last night definitely fixed the time within which the crime must have been committed and added facts regarding as of first magnitude importance in their bearing upon the crime. Strangely enough, this young man, who had been Taylor's driver for nearly six months, had not been questioned at length until yesterday, when an Examiner representative called on him at his home, 1622 Shatto Place. He is a brother of Harry Fellows, who was Taylor's assistant director. Yesterday Detective Sergeant Tom Zeigler took Howard to the Taylor home, 404-B South Alvarado street. He was partially identified by a resident of the neighborhood as the person he had seen seated in a car on the night of the murder near the scene of the crime and about the time it was committed. Fellows denied this and convinced Zeigler that the man was mistaken. One of Fellows' most interesting statements, other than that relating to his movements and observations on the night of the assassination, had to do with an alleged quarrel between Taylor and Mabel Normand. 'I was driving Mr. Taylor and Miss Normand from the Ambassador Hotel, where they had attended a New Year's Eve party, to her home.' said Fellows. 'On the way they had a quarrel. I don't know what it was about, but both were very much excited. 'Mr. Taylor took Miss Normand home and then returned to his apartment. Upon arriving there he broke down and wept. 'On the following morning he did up some jewelry in a package and took it to Miss Normand at her home.' Henry Peavey, Taylor's colored valet, confirms this. 'Mr. Taylor and Miss Normand were very affectionate,' continued Fellows. Questioned independently, Peavey said that Taylor often caressed her. As to these matters Fellows spoke casually, but when he entered upon the events of the night of February 1, his narrative became astounding both as to its content and because he had never told it before. 'I left the house (Mr. Taylor's) about 4:30 Wednesday afternoon,' Fellows began. 'Mr. Taylor told me he might be going out in the evening and instructed to be sure to telephone by 7:30. I went to the home of a young lady friend and was there until 7:55. I recall the time accurately because I had it on my mind to call Mr. Taylor and ask him if he would need the car. 'I called him two or three times before that hour, bur received no reply. I left the house of my girl friend at five minutes to eight and drove directly to Mr. Taylor's. 'I reached there about a quarter past eight. 'There was a light in the living room. I was surprised that Mr. Taylor should be home and not have answered the telephone. 'I rang the doorbell. Silence. I rang again. Still no response. I must have rung three or four times. Then I concluded: 'Well, he has some one there and doesn't want to answer.' 'So I put up the car. I was around back of the house, and it is peculiar that persons in the neighborhood should have heard me walking and not have heard me put up the car. I made a good deal of noise doing this, as the garage is difficult to get into, and I guess I must have backed the car up four or five times. 'I am satisfied that I am the man Mrs. Douglas MacLean saw standing on the porch and leaving the house. I wore a cap and a raincoat. 'I noticed no cars in the immediate vicinity and saw no one who aroused my suspicions. 'Naturally, I am convinced that both when I phoned and when I rang the doorbell, Mr. Taylor was lying there on the floor murdered.' Taking the testimony of Fellows and Miss Normand together, it is now possible to fix the time of the murder within fifteen minutes. Miss Normand said she left Taylor between 7:30 and 7:45 o'clock. Fellows called him at 7:55. The murder was committed between Miss Normand's leave-taking and Fellows' phoning. Hence, for the first time, the police have a picture of the murder as it relates to the time when and in which it was committed. Before Fellows' statement became available there was no conclusive evidence as to the time the bullet of the assassin struck the film director down. Testimony as to the shot being heard was so vague as to be unconvincing. It could not be said with finality that the murder did not occur at midnight or at any other hour of the night. The acts of the drama leading to the murder must have been brief. It would appear, indeed, that there were no preliminaries, that the intruder, concealed in the room, stepped out and fired the shot. It is therefore deduced that it was a premeditated crime and not one precipitated by a quarrel or any sort of scene more than of momentary duration. One group of police investigators and most of the deputy sheriffs working on the case are now convinced that the visit of Mabel Normand was the immediate antecedent occasion for the crime. This theory naturally takes for granted that Miss Normand had not the slightest intimation that her dear friend was to be shot to death, but officers cannot help but believe that the murderer found the way for his crime paved in some way by the visit of Miss Normand. There was another new angle to the case late yesterday upon which two of the ablest detectives on the force are now working. A citizen of established reputation gave the details to a high police official yesterday, the story running substantially as follows: A young man who has come into touch with motion picture people in a business way, though not one of them, was infatuated with an actress prominently mentioned in the investigation. Shortly before the time of the murder, that is between 7:30 and 8 o'clock on the night of February 1, this citizen saw the young man in question near Taylor's house. He wore a cap and a long coat. Since last Thursday he has not been seen either at his home or place of business. This clue is regarded as important because the elements of motive and time are supplied. The young man is said to have a violent temper and to have strongly resented innuendoes affecting the reputation of the actress whom he worshipped. Into the William D. Taylor murder last night was injected an element which the police regard as of startling import. This was the revelation, according to information, that a man's handkerchief, not the possession of Taylor himself, was found in the director's living room the morning after he was slain. The conclusion that the handkerchief did not belong to Taylor is furnished in this report-- It bore the initial 'S.' A detective is said to have picked up the article from the floor. He glanced at it, saw the initial, and for the moment, other matters engrossing him, he gave the discovery little thought. For several hours all was confusion in the Taylor rooms. Detectives, motion picture actors, reporters and photographers invaded the apartment. Yesterday the detective recalled the incident, remembering distinctly that there was a single initial embroidered on the square of linen. The disclosure proved to be of profound interest, as officers immediately started upon an investigation with this as the subject matter and the owner the end of the search. What gives the discovery special significance is that the handkerchief was soiled. So says the detective, who recalls this circumstance clearly. The handkerchief was lying on the floor near where Taylor's body lay outstretched. Now, Taylor, according to all the descriptions of him furnished by his friends, was a neat man and would not have had a soiled article like this lying around. To add to the probability that it came from without rather than from within the home, may be mentioned the fact that Henry Peavey, colored valet, had straightened up the director's living room before leaving for the evening. Peavey yesterday informed the police that the handkerchief certainly was not there when he left. He also stated that Taylor possessed nothing resembling this. Hence, it is a deduction that a man having a handkerchief bearing the initial 'S' called on Taylor and was in the apartment between the time Peavey left for the night and the discovery of the crime the following morning. In reconstructing the murder as suggested by this discovery the police picture the assassin as taking his handkerchief from his pocket during a conversation with Taylor and of so insecurely placing it back that it fell from his pocket. Or--and this is another sketch to fit the hypothesis--he may have used the handkerchief after the murder and, either in haste or agitation, dropped it. It is now of the utmost importance, in the view of the police, that this handkerchief be recovered. Or, failing in this, that its owner be identified. Some one took the article from the living room where it was carelessly placed by the detective who found it. Did that some one have an interest in hiding what might have been incriminating evidence? Its appearance, they say, would have precluded any mere souvenir hunter from having taken it. However, it is believed to be beyond question that some one surreptitiously picked this thing up and concealed it in his pocket. Whether or not it is of the huge possible importance with which it is now regarded, this new story has sent the police hunting in a new direction. They are looking for the owner of that handkerchief. A long list of film folk, celebrated and obscure, whose names begin with that initial, was being canvassed last night by officers. Little importance was attached to the pink silk nightgown found in the director's apartments. This, it was learned, had been laundered only once or twice and bore no initials or other marks by which its ownership might be determined. Information came to headquarters yesterday that a man had been seen walking back and forth in the rear of Taylor's home in the Westlake district about two weeks ago. He was seen there on at least two nights, pacing up and down the alley and, apparently, watching the house. There is, of course, no means of knowing who he was or why he was there, but the theory of a hired assassin enters to account for his presence and stealthy vigil. Detective Sergeants Cato and Cahill yesterday started a systematic requestioning of all persons who might contribute helpful facts. One of those put down for a thorough course of grilling is an actress who has not been mentioned in the case. Officers called at her studio yesterday, but found that she was out on location at a distant point in Southern California. The collapse of a noted screen star mentioned frequently in connection with the case yesterday prevented the police from further questioning her. They had a point to clear up, and the information, it was learned, could only come from her. Her attorney yesterday took command of her affairs and notified callers that she was bedridden and in neither physical nor mental condition to discuss the case. The cause of the actress' breakdown is attributed in part to the strain of innumerable police interviews, but chiefly to the loss of a friend who, she says, was very dear to her. It developed yesterday that few members of the picture colony believe Edward F. Sands, discharged secretary-valet of the director, to have been the murderer. Particularly in the Famous Players-Lasky is this conviction strong. Few of them knew Sands personally, but those who had seen him around Taylor's apartments now recollect him as a man who might have been guilty of petty crimes, such as robbery, but not of murder. It occasioned little surprise yesterday when the sheriff of Elko, Nev., wired that the man seen there for several days and supposed to be Sands had been questioned and gave such a clear account of himself that the sheriff ordered his release. Detective Ed King this morning will ask the District Attorney for a complaint charging Sands with the murder of Taylor.
1922-02-08	Here is another unsigned love letter, in cipher, found in the effects of William D. Taylor, the motion picture director. This letter would indicate the writer's deep love for Taylor. The code is known to thousands of youngsters: 'What shall I call you, you wonderful man. You are standing on the lot, the idol of an adoring company. You have just come over and put your coat on my chair. I want to go away with you, up in the hills or anywhere just so we'd be alone--all alone. In a beautiful little woodland lodge you'd be cook (as I can only make tea) and fetch the water and build the fire. 'Wouldn't it be glorious to sit in a big comfy couch by a cozy warm fire with the wind whistling outside trying to harmonize with the faint sweet strains of music coming from our victrola. And then you'd have to get up and take off the record. Of course I don't really mean that, dear. Did you really suppose I intended you to take care of me like a baby? Oh, no, for this is my part, I'd sweep and dust (they make the sweetest little dust caps, you know) and tie fresh ribbons on the snowy white curtains and feed the birds and fix the flowers, and, oh, yes, set the table and help you wash the dishes and then in my spare time I'd darn your socks. I'd go to my room and put on something soft and flowing, then I'd lie on the couch and wait for you. I might fall asleep for a fire always makes me drowsy--then I'd wake to find two strong arms around me and two dear lips pressed on mine in a long sweet kiss---' (The last paragraph of this letter is being withheld by The Examiner from publication at this time.)
1922-02-08	Ten thousand persons paid final tribute to William Desmond Taylor yesterday afternoon. They stood with bared heads as the casket was removed from St. Paul's Pro-Cathedral, a solid, packed mass of humanity which extended from the church doors across Olive street, filled that thoroughfare from Fifth to Sixth streets, and overflowing into Pershing Square. A squad of police officers, under command of Sergeant J. A. McCaleb, including a number of mounted officers, had great difficulty in restraining the huge throng, and the famous picture stars who attended the service found themselves passing through a solid aisle of curiosity seekers, jostling and pushing each other in frantic efforts to catch a glimpse of the celebrities. Most of them, however, including Constance Talmadge, Mary Miles Minter and others came through a little used side door half an hour before the services, which began at 2 o'clock. Mabel Normand, escorted by several friends, hatted and furred so that her features were entirely obscured, came a few moments before the ceremonies. After the church, which has a seating capacity of 1000, was filled, the crowd stormed the doors in an effort to gain admittance, and it was only by using force that the police were able to restrain it. So great was the disturbance and the cries that, for a few moments, the service was interrupted. The great majority were women, and the crush became so great just before 2 o'clock that two women fainted and had to be removed in private automobiles. Every window in an adjoining house was packed; boys were perched on lamp posts, and across the street both men and boys were using trees and trolley posts to gain points of vantage. Never before in the history of Los Angeles has there been such a crowd at the funeral of a private citizen. The mounted officers kept open a path for street cars with difficulty and vehicular traffic was stopped by Sergt. McCaleb at 1 o'clock. They remained outside the house of worship, standing for three hours waiting to catch a glimpse of the casket and to see men and women whose names are known all around the world. All Screenland's notables sent floral pieces. The entire front of the chancel was a solid mass of blossoms which overflowed, almost to the alter in one direction, and down to the foot of the bier in another. Standing out prominently in bold relief against all the rest, was a huge, magnificent wreath of roses sent by Mabel Normand, which was on the left and a snow white cross of lilies with a card bearing the simple inscription: 'From Dustin.' There also was a modest shower of lilies, the flowers of purity, somewhat inconspicuous among the riot of American Beauties, orchids and other expensive blossoms. This card said merely: 'Ethel Daisy's' and was the contribution of Ethel Daisy Tanner, 19-year-old daughter of the dead man, whose home is in New York. While a list of the names on the cards attached to the floral pieces read like a page from the blue book of Filmdom, there was one, written in a rather scrawly hand, indicating it came from one in the humbler ranks, reading, simply: 'For Mr. Taylor--from Jim.' It was a basket of delicate Spring flowers. The Black Prince roses which Mary Miles Minter left at the mortuary, were there, as well as a gorgeous piece from the Directors' Association, of which the dead man was the president, and scores of others. Included in the number were flowers and pieces from the American Society of Cinematographers, a harp of pink roses, sweet peas and lilies, Charles Ray; shower of roses and lilies, from George Young and Helen Sanborn; Al Christie, red roses; Lila Lee, shower of pink roses; Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Ince, cross of pink roses and orchids; W. A. Robertson, shower of pink roses; Mack Sennett, basket of roses; E. M. and F. A. Franklin, showers of lilies; Antonio Moreno, wreath of lilies and orchids; Harry Fellows, assistant to Mr. Taylor, spring blossoms, sweat peas and lilies; Constance Talmadge, American Beauty roses, L. L. Burns, wreath of sweet peas, Charles Chaplin, wreath of velvet roses; Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean, spray of roses and lilies; from 'Bebe and Phyllis' a spray of pink carnations and lilies; Charles Levy and Sons, red velvet roses and lilies of the valley, Mr. and Mrs. R. Barker, wreath of pink roses and lilies of the valley; Edward Knoblock, wreath of sweet peas and lilies; shower of roses, Mrs. Otis Turner of New Rochelle, New York; Elsie A. Larson, roses; Ethel M. Davis, wreath, as well as large pieces from every organization identified with the film industry, including the Screen Writers' Guild, Actors' Equity Association and others. It was shortly after noon when the casket was placed at the head of the main aisle of the cathedral by Ivy H. Overholtzer, head of the mortuary from which bears his name. A deaconess in her semi-uniform of gray, was busy arranging the late floral tributes. A minister was tiptoeing about whispering and arranging final details. The air was heavy with the scent of roses, lilies and other flowers. Outside the February sun was shining brightly, with a hint of Spring in the air. A stray beam found its way through a bit of stained glass in a chancel window, which, strangely enough, bathed the bier in a mist of shimmering gold. The British flag, draped over the casket, was transmuted into a cloth of wondrous color and beauty. It was a scene of peace and quiet, yet pregnant with events soon to occur. Then came soft footfalls on the carpeted aisle and into a pew but a few feet away from the casket came Henry Peavey, colored cook and valet of the dead man, accompanied by J. J. Larkin, a white friend of many years standing. Peavey took one look at the masses of flowers, one glance at the gleaming cross on the altar, then his eye was caught and held by the flag- draped coffin, enwrapped in golden light. Suddenly he sobbed aloud, and, half turning his body, crumpled into a heap on the cushions, his body shaken with grief. It was almost half an hour before he could compose himself, and during the services tears ran unrestrained down his cheeks. Then came a sharp reminder of the days when the director abandoned the studio to battle for right, truth and justice, and became one of the five million men who helped turn the tide of war and bring victory. For Mr. Taylor enlisted as a private in the British army and rose to the rank of captain with remarkable rapidity. As a mute reminder of that service, his cap lay on the coffin, and he lay there in the casket in his uniform, but without the medals he won for valor and bravery. There was a sharp tread of feet, the rattle of arms, and short, sharp commands as a guard of honor was posted by the captain in command--Canadian soldiers, former service men, in full uniform, one at each corner, standing immobile, statue-like, with heads bowed, their hands resting on the butts of their rifles with barrels resting on the floor. And between the staccato orders of the captain came the sound of the sobs of Peavey, the servant of the dead man. It was half an hour before the time set for the rites that the half of the cathedral set aside for the film folks began to fill. Charles Eyton, general manager of the West Coast studios of the Famous Players-Lasky Corporation, was among the first to come. He was followed by a number of directors almost as well known as their dead friend who lay in the casket in the front of the church, with four soldiers on guard--the honor guard for the dead British captain. Among the others who were present were George Melford, Ted Sloman, Wesley Ruggles, Frank Beall, Ben Wilson, Murdock MacQuarrie, James Young, Frank Campeau, Theodore Roberts, Antonio Moreno, Gilbert Hamilton, George L. Cox, Wallie Van, Paul Scardon, Roy Clements, Mrs. Julia Crawford Ivers, Mr. and Mrs. Henry McRae, Wallace Worsley, Kathleen Kirkham, Frank Lloyd, Joseph DeGrasse, Arthur Hoyt, Constance Talmadge, who was accompanied by her mother; James Neill and scores of others whose names are household words over the world. Among the throng was a little dark-haired, big-eyed girl whose eyes bore traces of weeping. She came in quietly with her mother and found as unobtrusive a seat as possible. She is Neva Gerber, former fiancee of Mr. Taylor, and, at the time of his death, one of his warmest friends and ardent admirers. Her handkerchief went often to her face during the services, as she was swept by memories of the tragedies, in sharp contrast to the happy hours they had spent planning a future wherein they should always be together. Outside the crowd had increased to large proportions. Sergeant McCaleb sent in a call for additional police to handle the impatient throng. A few of the fortunate ones who stood closest to the church door were admitted and it was announced the cathedral was closed. Then it was that the crowd broke the restraining ropes and the human barriers of soldiers and police and swept up the steps, determined to gain admission. There was a quick mobilizing of uniformed officers, attaches of the church and others who blocked the onslaught. They were compelled to handle some of the foremost and most aggressive men and women with force to prevent them from taking the edifice by storm. Some were people who had worked with Mr. Taylor; others came from various studios, but in the main they were idle curiosity seekers who possessed a morbid desire to be present at the services and to view the body later. They had waited from two to three hours and they were determined to get in at all costs. While the church was not completely full, this wholesale onslaught made it impossible to open the door and admit the few for whom there still was standing room. The organ began a slow, solemn dirge, as the crowd without was clamoring for admittance, and making so much noise those in the back could scarcely hear its notes. Dean William MacCormack, standing high in the pulpit, a dignified, commanding figure, was the center of attention. He gave a signal, and the male quartet ruffled its music, the organ switched into a prelude and then they sang the old, beloved hymn, which took many back to their childhood, and away for the moment, of the scenes of which they were apart. 'Lead, kindly light, amidst the encircling gloom. 'The night is dark and I am far from home. 'Lead Thou me on.' Their voices rose, clear and melodious and the swelling notes of the organ rose in accompaniment. To some this was but a prelude, but to most it brought recollections of days that are gone and friends who are no more. Of other churches, perhaps, at eventide, and other voices which sang this hymn--voices, like that of William Desmond Taylor, there in the casket, now stilled in death. When the last note died away, Dean MacCormack began reading the beautiful and impressive service of the Episcopal Church for the burial of the dead--the comforting words from the Book of books, which have come down through the years to lighten the sorrows of the bereaved, rich in promise and vibrant with hope. The clergyman made an impressive picture as he stood in the chancel in his vestments of white, reading the promises of the Man of Galilee, made 1900 years ago, which have brought their mede of cheer to countless millions: 'I am the resurrection and the Life; whosoever believeth in me shall not perish, but have everlasting life.' And those other pledges of eternal life and happiness. Then it seemed most fitting and proper that the quartet should sing another dearly beloved hymn, another heritage of the ages, 'Abide With Me'-- 'Abide with me. 'Fast falls the even tide. 'The darkness deepens. 'Lord with me abide.' Then there was the reading of Scripture by the Rev. C. H. Boddington, assistant to the dean, and the final prayer. Then the thousand persons in the church rose to their feet, again there was the sharp military commands as the guard of honor was changed, and, preceded by Dean MacCormack the casket was carried up the aisle and deposited in the vestibule of the cathedral. The throng within the church filed slowly out, stopping to take a last look at the slain director. And as they went slowly by Mabel Normand, in church pew, was in a state of collapse, but regained her composure later. She had planned to leave the edifice by a little used door, but abandoned the plan. The pall bearers, honorary and actual, were made up of members of the Motion Picture Directors' Association and those of the British Overseas Club, service men in uniform. Those from the directors' organization included James Young, Frank Beall, Frank Lloyd, D. M. Hartford, Joseph DeGrasse, Arthur Hoyt and Charles Eyton. The overseas contingent, which included the firing squad, was made up, in part, of the following: Major W. Driver, in command; Captains Morrie Spencer and J. Portus and Lieutenants Carter, Thompson, Donsell, Southern, Dalton, Jackson, Dickson and Rawlins. The firing squad was under command of Captain Arthur Clayton. A picturesque touch of color was lent to the otherwise drab scene by the presence of a company of Scotch bagpipers in full regalia, from caps to kilts and short stockings. There also was present, wearing a uniform unlike any of the rest, a bugler, furnished by the commander of the British warship Calcutta, now anchored at the port of Los Angeles. When the last of the spectators had left the cathedral, but with the outside crowd still increasing in numbers, the casket was born to the waiting hearse. There was a craning of necks and then the crowd surged forward completely blocking the passage way the police had made for the hearse and the funeral party. It was with difficulty that the bluecoats remade the path through the dense throng but it was finally accomplished and the funeral cortege started on its way. It moved slowly south on Olive street, the guard of honor, with arms reversed, followed by the pipers, playing a funeral march, the muffled drum forming a tonal background for the somewhat shrill skirling of the pipes. Traffic was halted on every cross street as the procession passed. On each side of the hearse walked the pallbearers, then came members of the Overseas Club in uniform, followed by the automobiles. In the first machine was Charles Eyton, William de Mille and a number of Lasky studio celebrities. A limousine immediately following was occupied by Mabel Normand The shades were closely drawn and the one star whose name has been more frequently mentioned in connection with the murder of Taylor was, with her party, hidden from the curious gaze of the thousands through which it passed. The next machine contained members of the Motion Picture Directors' Association, and the other noted members of the film colony. As the thin, high notes of the bagpipes called attention to the procession, pedestrians stopped and doffed their hats and gazed. Solid lines of humanity in the center of the street down to Ninth street, did not obstruct their vision. Men at work on a building on Olive street between Seventh and Eighth stopped their work and stood on ladders and the room, hats off, and watched the passing of the machines. Newsboys stopped selling their papers, with stories of the tragedy, to worm their way up to the front line of spectators in the street. Just as the cortege was between Seventh and Eighth streets, Henry Peavey ran across the street and climbed into an open car. Along the entire route the sidewalks were lined with people who paused and watched the solemn march. For nearly a mile on each side of Hollywood cemetery, where the final ceremonies were held, machines were parked. Along the drives of the cemetery hundreds of others were left, while their owners went to make up part of a throng of more than 1000 people. A square was roped off and around it this new crowd was waiting when the cortege arrived. The magnificent floral pieces had been set up and formed a fitting background for the last rites. And most prominent among them was the huge wreath sent by Mabel Normand. Also occupying an important position was the director's table at which he worked, and the canvas-backed chair in which he worked. The guard of honor drew up on one side. And then, there under the blue sky, with the green grass under foot, and palms waving gently in the afternoon breeze, the final words were said for the man who loved the open places of the world more than anything on earth. It seemed especially fitting and proper that the last tributes should be paid outdoors before his body was placed in a mausoleum. There was a prayer by the Dean, and then the Canadians took charge and the dead director was given a strictly military funeral. The spectators were permitted to view the body, after which three volleys were fired by the squad, and between each volley, the bagpipes sent forth their mournful refrain. Then the bugler placed his instrument to his lips and sounded 'taps,' the last call of the military day. The notes sounded through the lisnet city of the dead as the hundreds stood in hushed silence, and the last mark of respect and love had been paid the dead director.
1922-02-08	A conspiracy of silence intended to thwart police investigation; the assurance of immunity for Edward F. Sands on a felony charge; the asserted career of the alleged slayer; entry of the federal government into the probe; the grilling of witnesses and the widespread probing of new and secret evidence featured developments in the mystery surrounding the slaying of William D. Taylor today... Sands, the man whom Police Captain David L. Adams is confident is responsible for the slaying of Taylor, today invited the fugitive to communicate with police headquarters and eliminate himself from the case if he is not guilty. 'Sands will not be prosecuted on the grand larceny charge now pending against him,' Captain Adams said. 'He can't be. The complaining witness in that case--Taylor--is dead. That case could never come to trial. 'If Sands is innocent, all he has to do is to notify me and prove his whereabouts on the night of the murder. If he can explain his movements successfully he will be released. We don't want him...' That there is an apparent plot afoot to prevent the true facts in the case from coming to light was corroborated today by Undersheriff Eugene Biscailuz. 'To date practically every source of possible information has proved a blank wall as far as the investigation is concerned,' he said. 'Plenty of red- hot information has been obtained by this office, but it has been wormed and ferreted out from various sources where it should have been forthcoming from persons who know. 'There is to be no further patience shown these persons who have been extended every courtesy and given every opportunity to tell what they know. Those who have facts which should be known to this office must 'come clean.' Sheriff Traeger will brook no more of these petty delays and unwillingness on the part of those who apparently have reached a unanimous decision to thwart the efforts of officers of the law interested in seeing that justice be done.'... It seemed today that activities for the time being would center at county headquarters where, under the personal direction of Sheriff William I. Traeger, Deputies Al Manning and Harvey Bell are working night and day in their efforts to bring the slayer to justice. Three men have been under suspicion by these officers for the past two days. One of them may be arrested today. It was definitely stated by the sheriff's office that steps would be taken to charge one of them with complicity, at least, in the crime. This assertion dovetails with intimation that Taylor was the victim of a sinister plot in which many persons well known to the public are more or less involved. It is whispered that before the investigation is concluded a startling list of names will be bandied about as co-conspirators in the slaying of the noted director. Shortly after 9 o'clock deputies were dispatched to look for the one of the trio said to have full knowledge of the murder and to collect further evidence relative to the asserted conspiracy... Sand's connection with the case has proved the bone of contention between various officials working on the mystery. The police department, practically to a man, are inclined to believe him guilty of the murder. Representatives of the sheriff's office take a diametrically opposite view. There is nothing in the evidence thus far disclosed which would connect the former secretary with the crime, they say. But Chief Deputy District Attorney William C. Doran is of the opinion Sands is the man and as a result a formal complaint charging him with the crime may be issued today. The district attorney's office has Detective Sergeants Contreras and King working on the case since it was first opened and they are in possession of certain facts that warrant such procedure, they say. All of the officers working on the case, however, are proceeding with 'open' minds and are accepting each clue at its face value. They were also busy today searching for a new figure in the tangle--a man said to have been deeply in love with a prominent motion picture actress mentioned in connection with the case. This man was seen in the vicinity of the Taylor home a few days prior to the murder and is said to be similar in build and general appearance to the man seen lurking about the Alvarado street residence on the night of the slaying. The 'mystery woman' interjected into the case late yesterday at the sheriff's office was also scheduled to make a second appearance today. Her identity has been closely guarded and the nature of her testimony has been withheld. According to Undersheriff Eugene Biscailuz, however, she is of the 'utmost importance' to the ultimate unraveling of the mystery...
1922-02-08	(Los Angeles)--Captain of Detectives David Adams made the flat statement today that secret information in his possession positively links Sands with the slaying and the police were concentrating their efforts upon a search for the former secretary. 'We have obtained secret information that we believe virtually solves the murder,' Captain Adams stated. 'We are centering our efforts on the location of Sands. This information has not been made public, nor will it be, but it is positive in its character.'
1922-02-08	Mary Miles Minter today was closely guarded by private detectives whom she had stationed at her beautiful Spanish casita, 2039 North Hobart boulevard, to keep away reporters and the merely curious. Miss Minter, according to reports from her house, is in a very nervous condition and has not been able to sleep for two nights. She was in conference with her mother, several friends and her attorney, John R. Mott. Expensive limousines lined the street for half a block. All correspondents who attempted to gain admission were turned back by the guards.
1922-02-08	...A fight to save the professional reputation of Mary Miles Minter, movie star, whose name has been dragged into the William D. Taylor murder mystery, was started today by her friends here. Hollywood's financiers, dealt a severe blow in the Arbuckle case, are resolved that no more screen prestige in which thousands of dollars have been invested shall be lost. Magnates determined to preserve Miss Minter's screen popularity met with attorneys at her home. Behind drawn curtains while private detectives stood guard to keep outsiders away the conference continued during the night and up until and early hour this morning... The son of a multi-millionaire eastern family may be arrested in connection with the murder of Taylor within the next day or two. His arrest will occur if county detectives can find a few necessary bits of corroborative evidence to support the theory already partly borne out by recent discoveries. The man who is suspected of knowing something about the mysterious assassination of the prominent picture director is now in Los Angeles under close surveillance. He came to this city, according to report, because of his admiration of a certain prominent woman movie star, whose name is among those mentioned as friends of the dead director. He was accredited by mutual acquaintances with being insanely jealous of the girl, although she, it appears, had never given him very much encouragement. Matrimony was his object, it is believed. Undersheriff Eugene Biscailuz confirmed the supposition that the sheriff's office is working on the theory that the murder was committed by some admirer of an actress and not by Edward F. Sands, former secretary of Taylor. Captain David L. Adams, head of the police detective squad that is trying to solve the murder, still hold firmly to the theory that with the capture of Sands the murder will be explained. Police are concentrating on the task of finding the secretary...
1922-02-08	A complaint charging Sands with the murder was to be issued today by the district attorney's office. William Doran, chief deputy district attorney, said there was no doubt in his mind that Sands is the guilty man.
1922-02-08	William D. Taylor, slain film director, was the dude of Dawson City, according to Adelbert Bartlett of Santa Monica, who knew him in Alaska [sic] in 1910. He wore tweeds, a soft crush hat, tasteful haberdashery, and was immensely popular with the women. He played crack tennis, was a card expert and attended most of the big functions in a dress suit, one of the few dress suits in the town. At that time Mr. Taylor was timekeeper for the Yukon Gold Company at $175 a month. 'Mr. Taylor gave me the impression of a man on a mysterious mission. At times he would obscure himself and nobody would know where he was and then again, he would embark on the heights of sociability. All of the women were interested in him. The country was more or less unconventional and he was frequently the escort of married women. In a perfectly proper way, of course. 'There was one case in particular, however, that impressed me at the time as liable to lead to trouble. Every morning at 10 o'clock he would have a tete-a-tete over the telephone with a woman. One woman was the wife of a high employee of the company, and there was some gossip. 'I used to wonder why a man of his personality and culture should spend his time there at such meager pay and the fact that he was always somewhat mysterious enhanced this question. 'He was thoroughly familiar with the Yukon Territory and I understood that he had been there in 1898 and 1899. He used to show me many places of interest. Robert W. Service, the poet, Mr. Taylor and myself have played together. 'Mr. Taylor was rather a quiet fellow, but always an outstanding figure. He attended the society affairs given by the Governor of the Territory and by the local celebrities and made himself generally agreeable, too. 'Lots of us guessed that he was a typical English remittance man. If Mr. Taylor was murdered because of any of his actions up there in the Klondike the grudge must have been harbored for a long time.'
1922-02-08	Dawson City, Feb. 7.--Records of the Yukon Gold Company indicate that William Desmond Taylor, motion-picture director who was found dead with a bullet wound in his neck [sic] in Los Angeles recently, added to his multifarious lists of trades during his sojourn in the Yukon. In Dawson he worked as timekeeper and commissary clerk from 1908 to 1913 [sic]. He is remembered as an efficient commissary clerk in several creek stations of the Yukon Gold Company. At Claim Seventy-six 'below' on Bonanza creek, he is referred to as a record-breaker in holding down grub allowances. He rode horseback for pastime and wrote short stories, which were published, it was said, in outside magazines. It is believed that he originally came from England. In the four- year period mentioned, he was absent from the Yukon one winter when he went to Honolulu with a theatrical company.
1922-02-08	Personal letters written by Mabel Normand, film actress to William Desmond Taylor, slain motion-picture director, were returned to her late yesterday, according to information in the possession of three officers working on the murder investigation. These missing letters, which have figured largely among the puzzling phases of the case, have never been in the hands of the police, it was declared. On suggestions of a thorough grand jury inquiry into the matter, the person said to have had these letters returned them to her, the three officers said. But a representative of Miss Normand, who collapsed yesterday at the funeral of the man whose home she left only a few minutes before he was shot in the back, stated she had not received them at a late hour last night. Captain of Detectives Adams asserted again that the police have never had any letters written by her or by Mary Miles Minter, another actress, whose love for Mr. Taylor has never been denied by her. These letters, couched in terms of endearment for the director, also were returned, according to the officers' report. Miss Minter, who has been ill, had no statement to make concerning the report. Her attorney said she did not have them... Deputy Sheriff Bell, working in connection with a 'lead' from Sheriff Traeger, made a mysterious trip during the afternoon and upon his return went into conference with Undersheriff Biscailuz and Superintendent of Criminal Investigation Manning. Mr. Biscailuz declined to divulge the nature of the inquiry, but declared he has every reason to believe they are on the right track and that the murder will not slip into the unsolved class. Detective Sergeants Cato and Cahill spent the morning and part of the afternoon eliminating from serious consideration a 'tip' given Monday night by C. M. Meister, chauffeur for the Yellow Taxicab Company, who told the officers a lurid story of four persons and their mysterious activities near the scene of the murder on South Alvarado street last Wednesday night, the time the shooting occurred. Cato and Cahill declared yesterday they are convinced the episode mentioned has no bearing on the case, but they investigated it thoroughly before discarding it... Information tending to connect a motion-picture director, thus far not mentioned in any way with the official inquiry, with the mysterious slaying of Mr. Taylor in his bachelor apartments was received by two of the detectives late in the day. They left on a hurried trip which kept them away from the police station many hours. Although they were reticent about the new 'lead' it was learned they had discovered witnesses who related a quarrel asserted to have occurred, between Mr. Taylor and the new suspect. An Edward Sands, at first believed to be the man about whom the country- wide search has centered, was questioned for a considerable time yesterday by Detective Sergeants Herman Cline and Murphy. Mr. Sands, a young man whose description answered in a general way to that of the suspect, recently became captain of bellboys in a fashionable hotel. A letter addressed to him was noted, and since he had been employed at the hotel only a few days, someone's suspicions were aroused. Following the clue given them, the officers investigated. Mr. Sands gave a straightforward account of his whereabouts for the last few years and declared he did not know any Edward F. Sands. He explained that his middle name was Edward but that he always used it as a first name. In the hope that Mr. Sands might have known something of the family of the man wanted, the officers questioned him for an hour at the detective bureau. No information of value was obtained, it was stated. The Sheriff's office, which is conducting a complete inquiry into all clues received by the county officer holds the belief that Sands, who has been a fugitive from justice for many months because of asserted grand larceny and forgery, has no knowledge of the actual murder. Those officers, as well as some of those working out of the police detective bureau, adhere more closely than ever to the theory that Mr. Taylor, an outstanding figure in the motion-picture industry, was slain by a jealous rival for the love of a film actress...
1922-02-08	Los Angeles, Feb. 7--...Bell and Manning declare that the police theory, fixing the murder upon Sands, Taylor's former secretary, is erroneous. 'The man who killed Taylor is right here in Los Angeles,' declared Bell. 'We are not shooting blind. We know what and who we are after. Before another day is passed we will have action on the murder.' The county investigators are working on the theory that a woman is at the bottom of the mysterious murder. The chief evidence unearthed during the day is a letter and a bit of celluloid film. The letter was received by Arthur Koetchu, Assistant State's Attorney General. It was received from a woman and, according to Koetchu, has a direct bearing on the case. It recounted that the writer overheard a conversation at Second street and Bunker Hill avenue on the night of the tragedy. One of the motorists wore a cap and muffler, it was stated. The informant overheard the men conversing in low, excited tones, the letter states. 'Now that we're in for it,' one of them is said to have told 'the man in the muffler.' They separated, going in different directions in two automobiles. But the occupants lost some small articles in their haste, the letter states. One of these was a small strip of motion picture film, apparently part of a scenic reel depicting the Grand Canyon. In the strip was this sub-title, apparently only a sinister coincident: 'A deep and brooding mystery seems to hover over this great scar on the face of nature.' Taylor had several reels of pictures stored in his home. Detective George Conteres is going through them with Public Administrator Frank Bryson to ascertain whether or not the strip of film is part of Taylor's collection of scenics.
1922-02-08	FILM STAR FAINTS AT TAYLOR FUNERAL; SANDS IS ACCUSED Miss Normand Weeps as women Shriek in Rush to Enter Disturb Rites. THOUSANDS STORM CHURCH Love Letter on Mary Miles Minter's Stationery is Found' by Police in a Book. SHE ADMITS SHE LOVED HIM Dead Man's Butier, it is Announced, Will Be Charged Today With His Murder. Special to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Cal., Feb 7.-Sweeping the police aside crowds stormed the doors of St. Paul's Pro-Cathedral today in an effort to force an entrance when the funeral services were being held for William Desmond Taylor. Several women were overcome in the crush and were removed with difficulty. The police succeeded in closing the doors after a battle with the crowds, but the cries of the women, caught in the onrush, penetrated the church and were heard above the words of Dean William MacCormack, who was officiating. Mabel Normand, weeping and appearently on the verge of collapse, arrived at the church just before the funeral services began supported by her maid and a woman friend. She was escorted through the crowd by a detective, After the services were over Miss Normand fainted in the church. Friends rushed to her side and sought to revive her. Later, efforts were made to hurry her out of the church, but these attempts were abandoned because of the crowd, and she remained in the church until she was fully composed. Edward F. Sands will be charged with the murder of Taylor in a complaint to be issued tomorrow according to a statement tonight by Detective Sergeant King, who said that the case is now solved. He promises soon to unfold the "new "and concliusive" evidence upon which the complaint is based. Six thousand persons, it was estimated, were packed into Olive Street at the hour for the funeral service, The crowd overflowed the street and occupied part of Pershing Square across. Many police were sent to keep the crowd in hand, but their efforts were vain in the face of the determination of the onlookers to get a view of the funeral. British Flag Drapes Coffin. The coffin was draped with a British flag, the flag under which Taylor fought during the Worid War. In the aisle were an old table and chair which Tayfor had used at the studio. The top of the table was covered with violets. Half of the church was roped off for members of the motion picture professsion and close friends of the slain director, while the other half was open to the public. Floral offerings from Gloria Swanson, Rudolph Valentino, Wallace Reid, Thomas Meighan, Agnes Ayers. Jack Holt, Bebe Daniels, Wanda Hawley, Dorothy Dalton, Betty Compton, Dougas MacLean and other film actors and actresses were banked about the casket. Miss Normand sent a carpet of American Beauty roses for the coffin to rest upon. while Miss Mary Miles Minter sent Black Prince roses. The pallbearers, chosen from Mr, Taylor's personal friends, included William De Mille, Frank Beal, George Melford, Arthur Hoyt, James Young, Frank Lloyd, David Hartford and, Charles Eyton. An honorary guard of pallbearers from the Overseas Club assisted at the close of the service. Henry Peavey, Taylors negro servant, on seeing the dead body of his master in the coffin, became hysterical and had to be taken back into the church and quleted as the coffin left the church. The mystery of the missing hour in the last day of Taylor's life has been accounted for. That hour was between 5 and 6 P. M., two hours before he was killed. Henry Peavey, the colored valet, stated that Taylor had left the house at 5 P. M., after announcing that he was going for a walk. He left instruction with Peavey to inform Miss Normand if she called that he would return at 6 P. M. He returned at that hour. He was taking a dancing lesson. A Mrs. Waybright was his instructor. "He was just brushing up on some of the old steps," Mrs. Waybright stated." He had always taken private lessons. His previous lesson was taken continued on Page Six.  FILM STAR FAINTS AT TAYLOR FUNERAL continued from Page I, Column 3. on the preceding Monday night. Om Wednesday night I noticed nothing unusual about his actions. He was  as jolly, though as quiet and reticent, as on the preceding visit. He never discussed his personal affairs with me while we danced. We only talked of his progress in dancing. Had there been any worry on his mind on his last visit I would have noticed it. Handkerchief as a Clue. LOS ANGELES, Feb. 7 (Associated Press). The announcement tonight that Edward F. Sands would be formally charged with William Desmond Taylor's murder followed the revelation that a detective was said to have found a handkerchief with the letter "S" embroidered on it near the body of Taylor. Henry Peavey, Taylor's colored servant, said his employer had no such possession and that he was certain such a handkerchief was not on the floor of the apartment when he left it shortly before the time fixed as that of the murder last Wednesday night. Earlier in the day the police issued a circular calling for Sands's arrest. Secretary and butler to Taylor. The circular was ordered forwarded to all police departments of the country. It contained a picture of Sands, declared by Captain of Detectives David L. Adams to be the only one in existence, so far as the police have been able to learn. At the same time Captain Adams declared that Sands was the only person whose arrest the police were seeking in connection with the case. The circular read as follows: "We hold warrants on charges of grand larceny felonies for the arrest of Edward F. Sands. We have also burglary charges against him and seek him for the murder of William Desmond Taylor in this city of Los Angeles on the evening of Feb. 1, 1922. "Description: Edward F. Sands American or English birth; has been known to give his name as W. D. of William D. Tanner; is believed to have  also used the name of Edward Fitz Strathmore, He is about 36 years of age, eight 8 feet 7 or 8 inches, heavily built; some months ago welghed 185 to 195 pounds or more, but is said to be lighter now; present weight may not be more than 175; round, full face, light complexion: very heavy brown hair: rather heavy eyebrows, said by some to almost meet over his nose: short nose, peculiar mouth, which looks small when closed; smokes cigarettes: usually well dressed; is well educated: fine penman, good accountant: is said to have served in the United States Navy. The charges of grand larceny and burglary were preferred by Taylor, who told the police that Sands disappeared with money and other valuables about six months ago, and later returned and stole other articles from his apartments. The police also learned that the person who robbed the apartments returneda pawn ticket to Taylor showing he had disposed of some of the articles, giving the name "William Deane Tanner." Taylor was formerly known as  "William Cunningham Deane Tanner," which fact, the police assume, was known to Sands. Arthur Keetch, Assistant State Attorney General, turned over today to Disstrict Attorney Lee C. Woolwine a letter in which the writer related an incident the night Taylor was murdered.  The writer whose name is not told, stated that his attention had been attracted to four men in two automobiles at Second Street and Bunker Hill Avenue. The cars were standing at the corner. One of the men was heard to exclaim. "Now that we've got him, we'll have to run like h--l." Youth Is Examined. An incident of the day in the search for Sands was the bringing to Police Headquarters of a youth of that name who turned out to be a bellboy in an apartment house, who soon convinced the police that he was not the man wanted. Another "Sands" was reported located in Carlin, Nev., but the officials in that section reported this was also a false clue. Deputies under Sheriff William L. Traeger said they were working on "several pressing angles" in connection with the case and were "very far from being discouraged." They said they had not taken part in the search for Sands, leaving that to the police. A scented note dropped from one of Taylor's books while police detectives were making an examination of his effects, according to The Los Angeles Examiner. It was on the butterfly monogramed stationery of Mary Miles Minter. It read as follows:  Dearest " I love youI love youI love you. "XXXXXXXX "Yours always, MARY." The last "X" was two inches in height followed by an exclamation point an inch in height. Mary Miles Minter did not deny authorship of the letter, according to The Examiner. "I did love William Taylor," she said. "I loved him deeply and tenderly with all the admiration and respect a young girl gives to a man with the poise and culture of Mr Taylor." Taylor and Miss Minter met at Santa Barbara two years ago. He was her director in several pictures. Letters Are written in Code. Among Taylor's effects were found two letters written in a well-known school girl code of straight lines and dots. One of these, deciphered, reads as follows: "I love you oh, I love you. "I had to come down because mama remarked that I always seemed to feel rather happy after being out with you. So here I am camouflage. "Furthermore, I am feeling unusually fine more camouflage. "I will see you later. God love you as I do." The home of Mary Miles Minter was under a heavy guard of private detectives today, and none but those with official permission were permitted to enter the grounds or residence. No explanation of their presence was made by the detectives, who maintained silence when questioned as to the purpose or by whom they were detailed to guard the place. In their consideration of blackmail as a possible element in the murder of William Desmond Taylor the police recalled tonight that Miss Normand was the intended victim of an alleged blackmailing plot several years ago. In 1916, she caused the arrest of Dr. Raymond A. Swett, a dentist, now said to be dead. It was charged that Swett demanded $610 from the actress under the alternative that he would circulate stories to her discredit. It is understood that Miss Normand dropped the matter upon receipt of a note from Swett, asking leniency because of his wife and children. Friends of Taylor told the police that the Director had an intense hatred for blackmailers. They quoted him as having said: "There is only one way to treat the blackmailer. Kill him." DON COLLINS Is ARRESTED.  Man Mentioned in Taylor Murder Is Located in Miami. Inspector John D. Coughlin, head of the Detective Division, received a telegram late yesterday afternoon from the police of Miami, Fla., informing him of the arrest there of Don Collins, exconvict and Tenderloin habitue, whose name was mentioned in connection with the slaying of William Desmond Taylor the motion-picture director, in Los Angeles. The telegram stated, he said, that Collins was in the company of another man and Miss Lila Wiley. 23 years old, who formerly lived with her parents at his Mount Hope Place, the Bronx. He added that he was under the impression that the second man was Francis T. Boylan, who formerly lived in the Hotel Claridge here. Collins was sought by the police of this city on an indictment charging him with shooting John H. Reid, a manufacturer of sllk lingerie, in the home of Mrs. Hazel Davis Warner, a cousin of Miss Wiley, at 1,892 University Avenue, the Bronx, on May 15 last. Collins was alledged to have fled with Boylan and Miss Wiley after he had shot Reid five times. About a week after the shooting Miss Wiley and Boylan surrendered to district Attorney Edward J. Glennon in the Bronx, were held in $10,000 bail each as material witnesses by Judge Gibbs in the Bronx County Court and later appeared before the Grand Jury in the investigation which resulted in Collins's indictment. Mrs. Warner was also placed under $10,000 bail as a witness. Reid, who at the time said he lived at 66 West Forty-sixth Street, recovered  from his wounds, but was reported to have proved of little aid to the District Attorney in his investigation of the shooting. The police never established a motive for the shooting of the manufacturer, but learned that Collins came into Mrs. Davis' home while she and Miss Wiley were entertaining Reid and Boylan. There was no mention of the killing of Taylor in the telegram, said Inspector Coughlin. DEFENDS MOVIE COLONY. Carl Laemmle Declares Hollywood Is Clean and Beautiful. Carl Laemmle, President of the Universal Film Manufacturing company issued a statement yesterday replying to one made Sunday by Herbert Brenon, a producing manager, in which Mr. Brenon said that Hollywood must be abolished because of the recent scandals in the California motion-picture colony. Mr. Laemmle's statement says: "Mr. Brenon has given out a good story. My chief criticism of it is that what he said, if he said it, is nonsense. Hollywood is not a nest of immoral people. Living there does not harm one's morals any more than living in New York or London or Paris or San Francisco or any other live centre. It is a clean, beautiful place, and it does not even need as much defense as I have given it. Of course, it has its bad element. Show me a place that hasn't. "To say that the Taylor murder hurts the moving-picture business is utterly foolish. If it turns out that a banker committed the murder, it wont hurt the banking business, will it? Nor will it hurt the newspaper business if an editor committed the crime. Nor will it hurt any other business if some one from that particular business killed Mr. Taylor. Then why should it damn the moving-picture business if it turns out that some one connected with a studio fired the fatal shot? "The movies are a popular target. Nearly everything has been blamed on them except the big wetness of Noah's time. I can't see how the Taylor murder will furnish any ammunition for reformers just because a man in the business has been murdered. I have no doubt that police records almost anywhere will show that in times gone by reformers themselves have even been murdered, but that is hardly a reflection on reformers as a whole. "The picture business has helped Hollywood to become one of the most thriving cities in the world. Less than two years ago I could have bought a piece of property there for $40,000. Recently it was sold for $120,000. Immorality never did that.   
1922-02-08	Only by the exercise of supreme self-restraint has Congress refrained so far from appointing a commission to go on a California excursion to investigate picture studio shenanigan.
1922-02-08	The angle eliminated today was the theory that the New York broker who came here, ostensibly to marry Miss Mary Miles Minter, might have slain the director out of jealousy. It was well known that Taylor idolized the girl. It was learned today, however, that the young man did not flee the city the day after the murder from any apprehension. The management of the hotel at which he was guest, had requested him to leave. The broker brought a film actor and two extra girls into his room. It is declared that the quartet was noisy and that people in nearby rooms summoned the hotel detective. The latter declares there was much drink in the place. He says further that when he asked the women to leave the men assaulted him.
1922-02-08	Los Angeles, Feb. 7--...Meantime the Sheriff's office has announced than an arrest will be made before morning and that the person arrested will not be Sands. The 'woman' theory was strengthened by Mabel Normand. She denied that she was infatuated with Taylor or Taylor with her, but admitted it might have appeared so to a jealous person and that 'it might be another girl.' Despite her disavowal of love for Taylor, Miss Normand collapsed at his funeral, held in the procathedral here today. An actress who had been severely grilled a few nights ago was questioned again today. It is believed her sweetheart may know something of the murder. He was jealous of Taylor, it is said. The 'tip' that Sands was hiding near Carlin, Nev., was proved false. The man was not Sands. He was much shorter, and he had a wooden leg. It was reported that new evidence as to the activities of the narcotic vendors, who are plentiful in Hollywood, had promised surprising developments, but there was nothing definite. The police were looking for a man said to be known as 'Dirty Joe,' who they believe can tell something about Taylor's personal habits, about the woman who went to call at his cozy bachelor apartments, when the shades had been drawn, and about the men reputed to be jealous of him. Some of the actors and actresses who have been patronizing this peddler are being sought, the police believing it possible they may talk 'if rightly handled.' Mary Miles Minter, the film star, who became hysterical when she heard of Taylor's death, has shut herself up in her home and four private detectives stand on guard to keep everybody away. Since it became known that Mary had written to Taylor, she will see nobody. A letter with her butterfly crest, signed, 'Yours, always, Mary,' was found in one of the numerous books in the Taylor library. 'Dearest,' it said, 'I love you, I love you, I love you.' There were nine little crosses for nine little kisses and the big cross with an exclamation point at the bottom of the letter. Mary has not admitted she sent this letter. Neither has she denied it. She has denied, however, that she loved Taylor in the sense the word is usually used. She loved him as a big, strong, kind man, she says, a brilliant, courteous, charming 'uncle.' She never was engaged to him. He never made love to her. Henry Peavey, Taylor's negro valet and cook, was questioned again today, but the only new thing he told was that Taylor kept a tiny lace handkerchief and that he used to kiss it often reverently. It may have been one sent him by his daughter, Ethel Daisy, who is coming to Los Angeles to attend the burial. It may have belonged to any one of many beautiful women. The handkerchief, so far as the police can learn, has nothing to do with the murder. But then, they say, neither has the missing pink silk nightie, for which they are still searching. The mystery of the nightie's disappearance simply adds to the mystery of the case. It was reported that the new county grand jury may be given this case within a few days. 'We are progressing with the case,' said Captain Adams, 'even if only by the process of elimination. We have not yet made any arrests, or taken anyone on suspicion, but we are gradually getting out of all the false trails that have been hiding the real path. I believe it all rests with Sands. Once we have him, we'll have everything.'...
1922-02-08	Nevada Sheriff Satisfied Prisoner Is Not Sands   Eiko, New., Feb. I (By the Associated Press. F. Roloff, former sailor, taken into custody here at the, request of the Los Angeles police on the charge that he might be Edward F. Sands. alias Edward. Fitz Strathmore, wanted in connection with the murder of William Desmond Taylor, has satisfied the authorities that he is not the missing butler, according to the assertion today of Sheriff HarTis. of Elko county. Roloff told Sheriff Harris that he was discharged recently from the navy at San Pedro, Calif., and that he was in San Francisco the night Tayfor was murdered.  February 9, 1922 FILM STAR FAINTS AT TAYLOR FUNERAL   Mabel Normand Shrieks and Falis to Floor as She Looks. at the Dead.   SHOUTS DISTURB SERVICE Crowd of 30,000 Struggles to Get Into Church--Bagpipes Play Dirge in Military Rites.   Los Angeles, Feb. 7 (By the Associated Press)--Laughter and sereams and prayers marked the funeral here today of William Desmond Taylor, murdered motion-picture director. A crowd estimated by the police to number 30,000--almost ten times as many as could be seated in St. Paul' s Episcopal pro-cathedral--fought for admittance, and when that was denied to the majority, those left on the outside of the structure jammed the streets and overflowed Pershing square, a small downtown park, upon which the pro-cathedral faces. Many women in the crowd outside fainted. Within the darkened procathedral only one fainted. She was Mabel Normand, who was attired in deep mourning. and who is one of the last to have seen the dead director alive.   Union Jack on Casket. The casket draped with the Union Jack and topped by Taylor's army cap, stood before the altar. Taylor's body was dressed in the uniform of an officer in the British army, with which he served during the world war. Four uniformed British veterans  guarded the casket, which was banked with scores of massive floral pieces. Half of the seats were given over to persons of the film colony and half to the general public. On one side of the casket sat members of the motion picture director 's association, of which Taylor had been president. Stars and producers were scattered here and there. They included Cecil de Mille, Thomas R. Incc, Dustin Farnum, Douglas MacLean and Antonio Moreno. While the Rev. William McCormack, of St. Paul's, was reading the burial service, shouts and laughter from the jostling, hysterical, riotous throng without echoed through the procathedral.   Miss Normand Collapses. Miss Normand had sat within a few feet of the casket. During the service she fixed her eyes upon it, occasionally sobbing and clasping the hand of a woman companion. Supported on the arms of the two women, she was the last of the long line to file past the casket for a last look at the dead director. She gave a quick glance, cried out, staggered a few paces and fell to the floor in a faint. She was carried into the ves try room, revived and taken home. When the funeral cortege moved away from the procathedral it was led by a group of Scotch bagpipe players, playing a shrill dirge. Beside the hearse marched a squad of men in the British army uniform, the honorary pallbearers. The active pallbearers, members of the motionpicture directors association, rode. Back of the honorary pallbearers marched about 50 members of the British Overseas club, veterans of the world war. Later in the line came 100 or more crowded automobiles. At the cemetery there was a brief service and he body was placed in a vault. 
1922-02-08	ORDER SANDS' ARREST   Police Send Out Picture of Film  Director's Butler. CALL NEW CLEW CONCLUSIVE   Love Note From Mary Miles Minter Found in Slain Man's Book. Motion Picture Actress Goes Into Seclusion and Residence Guarded to Insure Privacy--Affectionate Letters, in Schoolgirl Code, Also Discovered--Wealthy New Yorker  Is Eliminated by the Detectives.   (By the Associated Press.) Los Angeles, Feb. 7.--A complaint charging Edward F. Sands, alias Edward Fitz Strathmore, missing butlersecretary, with the murder of his former employer, William Desmond Tayfor, will be issued, it was declared tonight, by Detective Sergt. Edward  King, of the police department. The complaint will be based on "new and conclusive" evidence uncovered today, according to King. Sands is now a fugitive from justice, as charges of grand larceny and burglary, preferred against him by Taylor, never have been dismissed. It was said that the new complaint might be issued against him tomorrow. Guards remained on duty tonight about the home of Mary Miles Minter, who admitted today she was the writer of a letter to Taylor. The  guards were employed to protect the actress against uninvited callers.   Nation-wide Search Started. Today's investigation of the slaying of Taylor culminated in the issuance by the police of a circular asking the arrest of Sands. The circular was ordered forwarded to all police departments of the country. It contained a picture of Sands, declared by Captain of Detectives David Adams to be the only one in existence, so far as the police have been able to learn. At the same time Capt. Adams declared that Sands was the only person whose arrest the police were seeking in con nection with the case. There has been abundant surmise about other individuals," he said, "and we have run down countless clews relating to the murder. But  I can say positively that we have no leads that would warrant us seeking anyone but Sands."   Text of Circular. The circular read as follows: "We hold warrants on charges of  grand larceny felonies for the arrest of Edward F. Sands. We have also burglary charges against him and seek him for the murder of William Desmond Taylor in this city of Los  Angeles on the evening of February 1, 1922. Description: Edward P. Sands, American or English birth. Has been known to give his name as W. D. or William Deane Tanner. Is believed to have also used the name of Edward Fitz-Strathmore. He is about 28 years of age; height, 5 feet 7 or 8 inches; heavy built; some months ago weighed 185 to 195 pounds or more, but is said to be lighter now; present weight may not be more than 175; round, full face, light complexion, very heavy brown hair; rather heavy eyebrows, said by some to almost meet over his nose; short nose; peculiar mouth which looks small when closed; smokes cigarettes; usually well dressed; is well educated; fine penman; good accountant, is said to have served in the United States navy." The charges of grand larceny and burglary were preferred by Taylor, who told the police that Sands disappeared with money and other valuables about six months ago, and later returned and stole other articles from his apartments. The police also learned that the person who robbed the apartments returned a pawn ticket to Taylor, showing he had disposed of some of the articles, giving the name "William Deane Tanner." Taylor was formerly known as "William Cunningham Deane Tanner," which fact the police assume, was known to Sands.   Two False Clews. An incident of the day in the search for Sands was the bringing to police headquarters of a youth of that name who turned out to be a bell boy in an apartment house, who soon convinced the officers he was not the man wanted. Another "Sands" was reported located in Carlin, Nev., but officials in that section reported this was also a false clew. Deputies working under Sheriff William I. Traeger said they were working on "several pressing angles" in connection with the case and were "very far from being discouraged." They said they had not taken part in the search for Sands, leaving that to the police. They declined to state whether any importance was to be attached to a visit to the sheriff's office of a woman whose identity was kept secret. After being interrogated she was hurried away in an automobile. Persons who caught a glimpse of her declared she was not any one of prominence in motion picture circles. "A scented note dropped from one of Taylor's books while police dedetectives were making an examination of his effects, according to the Los Angeles Examiner.  It was on the butterfly monogrammed stationery of Mary Miles Minter. It read as follows: "Dearest--I love you-I love youI love you.   x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x "Yours always, MARY."   The last "x" was two inches in height, followed by an exclamation point an inch in height. Mary Miles Minter did not deny authorship of the letter, according to the Examiner. "I did love William Taylor," she said "I loved him deeply and tenderly, with all the admiration and respect a young girl gives to a man with the poise and culture of Mr. Taylor." Taylor and Miss Minter met at Santa Barbara two years ago. He was her director. They later went to New York with the company. The wealthy young New York man, who was reported to have left Los Angeles on the day following the murder of Taylor and who was enamored of one of the motion picture actresses whom police have been questioning in connection with the case, was located late last night by private detectives. According to these investigators he gave an account of himself which they say practically eliminates him from consideration in connection with the case. He was loeated in a downtown hotel. Interest had centered upon him for several days because he was said to be a rejected suitor of an actress reported infatuated with Taylor. Among Taylor's effects were found two letters written in a well-known school girl code of straight lines and dots. One of these deciphered reads as follows:   Happier After Meetings. "I love you-oh, I love you. "I had to come down because mamma remarked that I always 'seemed to feel rather happy after being out with you.' So here I am. Camouflage. Furthermore I am feeling unusually fine-more camouflage. "I will see you later. God love you as I do." An attorney for Miss Minter announced she had gone into seclusion and the residence was guarded by friends at the request of the family to insure privacy. The attorney said in connection with a letter published today as from Miss Minter to Taylor that it is possible the motion picture actress may issue a statement.  
1922-02-09	Magazines devoted to motion picture plays and players do a great deal of harm by the nauseating drivel that they print. The silly prattle that is put into the mouths of screen players who are 'interviewed' for these magazines and then pen pictures drawn of them are beyond reason. Rex Ingram, a scholar, is not given any better 'boost' than a former salesgirl who has suddenly become a headliner. The same superlatives that are used to discuss Ingram are used to describe the brainless cutie whose face is her fortune and whose brain is still in the kindergarten age. It is a long jump from paperbound novels and chewing gum to Plato and Thoreau, but the facile writer of the screen monthlies blithely makes this leap. It must have been with pain and anguish that the screen fans read how Mabel Normand, pictured as a devotee of Voltaire and Nietzsche, testified that on her way to William Taylor's house on the fatal night she stopped at a newstand to buy a bag of peanuts and a copy of the POLICE GAZETTE.
1922-02-09	No more perfect stage setting for a dramatic tragedy could have been wished for by the most exacting director or stage manager than the artistic arrangement of the house in which William D. Taylor, director and art connoisseur, met his death. If the front wall of the house had been removed, a description of the first floor might well be taken for the preface of a one-act play. Imagining this front wall to be a drop curtain which has just been rolled up there will appear in the extreme foreground, a little right of center, a small mahogany writing desk, over which are scattered papers, checks and letters. At the left of center stands a magnificent grand piano [sic] with an oriental covering of soft mauves and mulberry shades. At right of center a large tapestry divan of neutral tone, figured in dull mauve tints. Behind the divan a large window curtained in deep cream filet lace with aide drapes of figured chintz harmonizing in color with the mulberry velvet carpet on the floor. Immediately behind this large living room, separated from it merely by simulated pillars, is a small dining room. The carpet is of the identical color, fabric and pattern as that which covers the living room floor; a William and Mary dining room table stands in the center and scattered through both rooms are reed and mahogany chairs, upholstered in mulberry velvet. The walls of these adjoining rooms are covered with dull gold and olive tapestry over which are hung scores of photographs, pictures of beautiful moving picture actresses and of men known internationally in the film world. Perhaps no single wall in the world held so complete a collection of famous screen beauties. Behind the dining room is a small kitchen, complete in every detail from its white enamel sink and drain boards to its spotless refrigerator and polished range. The front bedroom, furnished in old ivory, with a pale blue Axminster rug and white muslin curtains, was the one formerly occupied by the man who met his death at the hands of an assassin's bullet. Two large windows looked out on the wide, green court and side windows, allowing floods of light and air, gave the room an unusually well ventilated aspect. On the dresser lay numerous toilet articles, all silver mounted and handsome, showing the aesthetic taste of a fastidious man, but all plain and substantial without any effeminate touches. On the table lay a variety of books, fiction, history, technical volumes connected with the work of the dead man. A blue and white blanket and a white Marseilles spread covered the bed in which the dead man was wont to sleep. This had been his home for the last three years and standing there on the threshold of this room, the most private sanctum and retreat a human being maintains for himself, one wondered what dreams of romance, wealth or glory flitted through the brain of the man now sleeping beneath six feet of earth [sic] and a blanket of roses, or what haunting fears, arising from spectres of the past, tormented that crumpled pillow? Of all the beautiful women that he knew, which face was it that floated through his dreams, and was it to hope and anticipated pleasure or to despair that he awoke in the morning? In the bedroom at the rear stand twin beds, covered with plain white spreads. Between the two bedrooms is a white tiled bath room with a huge tub and shower and a large medicine cabinet filled with bottles of every description, household remedies and simple drugs, but showing that the former occupant suffered with a variety of ailments from eye trouble to falling hair. In this cabinet were two varieties of talcum powder, two perfume bottles with distinctly different odors, and other articles pertaining more to feminine tastes than masculine. An air of seclusion and security one might have felt in this house, which is set well back in the court from the street and surrounded by sedate looking dwellings that would seem to frown on and forbid the presence of crime. But from the successful manner in which the murderer has broken all threads of the clew which would implicate him in the deed, probably no more cold-blooded crime was ever planned. There at the little mahogany desk, in the immediate foreground, a trifle to the right of center, on Wednesday evening, February 1, about eight o'clock, sat William D. Taylor, probably the best known and best loved moving picture director in the West. A bright light burned over his desk and a long evening's work lay ahead of him. With the lights out in the kitchen and the dining room at the rear, a murderer might well have hidden in the dusky, purple shadows, and over the soft velvet carpet he could have glided in silence until he reached out and touched his victim. Who knows but what he may have muffled his revolver and shot at such close range that the speeding bullet made no perceptible report or echo, except in the startled consciousness of the man whose soul and body were rent apart in the twinkling of an eye. And all night long, as the body of the murdered man lay on the floor, the crimson life-blood silently oozing out drop by drop, dyeing the soft carpet a deeper hue, all night long the lights burned on his desk, throwing weird gleams and shadows on the pictures of the beautiful moving picture actresses on the wall; what ghosts stalked through this silent sepulcher that night? What echoes of the fleeing murderer resounded in the streets outside? But now, as though no breath of crime had ever stifled out a human life, the birds twitter in the eaves and over the doorway and the sun streams through the windows and flickers in dancing circles over the carpets, which show no visible reminders of the crime. Only a silence, a hush like that of wonder, seems to hold the unspoken whisper. Why? Who? Where is he now?
1922-02-09	...Mr. Doran is said to be interested in the report that Taylor's body had been carefully laid out. This statement comes from F. Parsons, a member of the police flying squadron, who, with Detective Zeigler, was the first to reach the scene of the crime. The director, says Parsons, was not sprawled on the floor, as one would have expected, considering the apparent physical facts of the slaying, but was lying with feet together and hands at sides as though some person had very carefully arranged his body. Would a man like Sands have taken this trouble? Would a man whose jealousy had turned into hate and hate flared forth in an act of murder have been concerned how the victim appeared in death? Rather, ask the police, does not the patient care with which this funereal task was performed suggest the slayer to have been a woman who loved him?... Captain Adams and men working under him on the case attach great importance to the bullet removed from the body of Taylor and to its peculiar value as evidence should the murderer ever be caught and brought to trial. Firearms experts have determined that it is of a kind manufactured many years ago and have found rifling marks and a nick on one of its edges. As a result of its classification the police now have a fairly accurate idea of the character of revolver used. It was learned yesterday that operatives of the United States Department of Justice have conducted an independent investigation and have developed certain angles not appearing in the evidence secured by the police or sheriff's officers. One of these, it is said, relates to a woman who has not been mentioned in any of the reports thus far published. Valuable information, it is said, was secured from this woman.
1922-02-09	...Mabel Normand, slated as one of the chief witnesses today, already has made a statement for use by the district attorney's office. This statement, relative to her letters which mysteriously disappeared for seven days, corroborates her previous assertions regarding them. Her testimony in this regard reads in part: 'I went to Mr. Taylor's home on Wednesday evening (just previous to the slaying of the director) to get back the letters I had written to him. He said, 'I mailed them back to you yesterday.' I replied that they had not yet arrived and then he said, 'I think Eyton or Garbutt have them.' Then I told him that I did not care if the world saw them except that it might be embarrassing to both of us because they might be misunderstood.' Miss Normand also added that her physical condition was such at the time of her asserted conversation with Taylor that she could not remember much of his actual conversation with her. She was on the verge of a nervous breakdown at that time, she said... [The above material is considered to be totally incorrect and fabricated by the press.]
1922-02-09	...it was said that a prominent film man, acting in executive capacity at one of the larger studios, would be called to tell what he knows of the strange disappearance of the Normand letters. The missives, according to the star herself, were in Taylor's possession at the time of his death. They had dropped from sight when the murder was discovered. Then, just seven days later, they came to light hidden in one of Taylor's riding boots. It is possible, investigators conclude, that the packet was taken by the man mentioned, 'edited,' and some of the letters removed. The alleged 'merely friendly' ones were then returned according to this theory. Miss Normand had previously stated that there was nothing serious between Taylor and herself, but that some of the letters contained endearing terms... ...At the sheriff's office practically every investigator scoffs at the Sands theory. The attempted fixing of responsibility on the former secretary, is a 'frame-up,' it is charged, and the outgrowth of the 'conspiracy of silence' which, it is asserted, has been planned by certain important personages in the motion picture industry.
1922-02-09	Hollywood Up In Arms At Frank Mayo An avalanche of indignation followed today in the wake of the statement credited to Frank Mayo, film actor, in a New York dispatch yesterday, in which the Hollywood motion picture colony was severely criticized. Publication of Mayo's interview brought instant protest. The actor's ears must have 'burned' continually since yesterday if the superstition holds good, for all Hollywood 'panned' him unmercifully. For the moment he was as big a subject for conversation as was the Taylor murder. Mayo's unexpected attack on the Hollywood motion picture colony was described as 'ravings' and 'an example of the lengths to which some notoriety- seeking individuals will go to get their name in the paper.' Scores of picture celebrities and studio executives strongly condemn Mayo's act. At every studio protests were heard. Mayo recently figured in a sensational divorce suit. As one prominent star put it, 'Persons who live in glass houses should not throw stones.'
1922-02-09	Psychics Seek Solution of Murder While police, sheriff's deputies and district attorney's detectives are following every earthly clue in the endeavor to track down the mysterious person who murdered William D. Taylor in his Alvarado street apartment, the psychical research societies and the spiritualistic devotees of Los Angeles are seeking through the invisible lanes of the supernatural to establish communication with the slain man on the 'other side.' Friends of Mr. Taylor say that he was a devout believer in the ability of spirits of the departed to manifest themselves to those still occupying their earthly bodies. 'When I go into the great adventure,' he is quoted as having said, 'I will use every effort that is possible on the 'other side' to get back into communication with those remaining on earth,' and it is with the belief that Taylor's spirit will retain the power to carry out this promise that the psychics and spiritualists of Los Angeles are centralizing their efforts upon the attempt to get into communication with him. These devotees of the occult firmly believe that it is possible for this to be done and they hold it would prove a tremendous proof of the truth of their beliefs if through spirit means a solution of the baffling death mystery could be worked out. Thus far, however, they freely admit that nothing definite has been obtained from their concerted efforts. This difficulty is being explained away by the psychics by the statement that in cases of sudden death, such as that of Mr. Taylor, the resultant mental shock and confusion of the instant is liable to last some little time after the death of the body and the spirit is very apt to linger around the old home, trying to adjust itself to the more familiar physical surroundings. According to their beliefs there is a very definite reason why word is not easily obtained from the unseen when related to the commission of a crime, and that is that as such information is invariably subject to the laws of destiny, not fate. According to this law, they say, the whole tape of experience must unravel itself in its own sequence, just as the flower exposes its true nature in its complete unfolding. The fundamental laws upon which these psychics say that they will base their efforts for communication are exactly the same as those which govern the underlying principle of wireless telegraphy. Some of the most noted psychics of the city have expressed the keenest interest in the effort and will try to secure what they term 'dependable communications' from the deceased motion picture director through one of their centers and from some one of the spiritual planes. Authorities claim that the conditions for the success of such a communication are more favorable now than ever before, since a certain cycle which has passed seems to have materially thinned the intervening veil. Many will await with interest the outcome of this widely organized effort.
1922-02-09	I am still clinging to my original theory of the crime--that the man with the cap whom my maid saw loitering in the alleyway the night of the murder slipped into Mr. Taylor's apartments when he escorted Mabel Normand to her motor and shot him immediately after he had returned to his suite and closed the door behind him.' Such was the assertion today of pretty little Mrs. Douglas MacLean, wife of the famous screen star, and whose apartment in the court at 400 South Alvarado street diagonally faces that of the slain cinema director, William Desmond Taylor. According to Mrs. MacLean, in the three years Taylor had occupied the apartment at 404-B South Alvarado, he had only entertained a few times, living on the whole a quiet and secluded existence and visited only by his intimate circle of friends. 'It seemed strange to see them moving Mr. Taylor's belongings today,' said Mrs. MacLean. 'He was certainly an ideal neighbor in every respect. Mr. MacLean and myself used to frequently see men visitors go to his apartments and now and again we would hear the familiar voice of some celebrated star chatting outside on his steps. 'But he never gave any wild parties--indeed, he never gave any other kind, either, but seemed to enjoy best simple amusements. 'It seems perfect plausible to me that the murderer could have slipped into Mr. Taylor's apartments during those few minutes when we all know he was escorting Miss Normand to her waiting motor car. Mr. MacLean and myself discovered that it would have been possible for the man whom my maid reported as loitering in the alleyway to have kept watch on Mr. Taylor's front doorway from where he was standing. 'My maid declared that the man was unusually still and silent for a loiterer. I suppose that I undoubtedly saw the murderer as he left Mr. Taylor's apartments that night. But it was dark and I couldn't see his face at all. 'According to my theory the man who killed Mr. Taylor was crouched back of the door, by the wall, and so was not discovered until after the door had been closed by Mr. Taylor. Then I believe that the man shot almost immediately. 'Mr. MacLean and myself are certain that we heard the shot and Mr. Jessurun, the manager, who has the adjoining apartment, also heard the report. But you know how little attention one pays to such noises-- especially when they are not repeated. We supposed it was a motor car and let it go at that. 'But I think that every one in any way affiliated with the motion picture industry is determined never to give up the trail until the slayer is apprehended.'
1922-02-09	...Rumors that the district attorney's office has undertaken an investigation of reports that thousands of dollars had been spent by motion picture interests to quiet the investigation of Taylor's death were vigorously denied today. Doran stated that police detectives and others have been in close touch with the district attorney's office and that no attempts to block the investigation had been encountered by him as yet. The fact that the district attorney's office has taken charge of the investigation is said to please motion picture officials vitally interested in the case. With Woolwine and Doran in charge the investigation will proceed systematically without unwarranted suspicion being directed against innocent parties. It was considered probable today that Woolwine will withdraw from the trial of Mrs. Madalynne Obenchain, charged with the murder of J. Belton Kennedy, to take direct and personal charge of the investigation of the Taylor case. Woolwine intended entering the trial of Mrs. Obenchain after the selection of the jury had been completed...
1922-02-09	...Bryson said that an investigation of Taylor's checks running back through several years had just been completed by a federal government employee connected with the income tax department and that there were no missing checks. The complete tally of checks with the stubs indicates that no effort was made by Taylor's murderer to suppress evidence of blackmailing activities, according to Public Administrator Bryson Bryson also said that the check probe showed that Taylor had not spent a dollar for insurance. Efforts to interview Mack Sennett, moving picture producer and employer of Mabel Normand, to ascertain his theory on whether Mabel Normand's visit had anything to do with precipitating the crime, failed Thursday. 'Mr. Sennett has been confined to his bed for the past two weeks with a severe cold,' his Japanese servant told a Record reporter late Thursday at the Sennett residence, 141 Menlo street. The Japanese servant took the reporter's card inside the house. A moment later another servant returned with profuse apologies, saying that Sennett had such a sore throat that he could not talk. He said his employer had been ill and confined to his bed for two weeks. Major Thomas A. Osborne, British consul, with offices in the Loew State Theater building, was momentarily expecting a telegram from Judge Frank G. Schrenkheisen, New Rochelle, New York, personal representative of Ethel Daisy Tanner, daughter of the murdered man, it was said Thursday. British consulates in the United States are working independently to solve the murder mystery, Attorney B. Rey Schauer, counsel for the local consulate, said. Five persons had been examined late Thursday by District Attorney Thomas Lee Woolwine, who took over the direction of the investigation just before noon... Undersheriff Eugene Biscailuz announced Thursday that further questioning of Mrs. Douglas MacLean Wednesday night resulted in clearing her of the implication that she was holding something back in order to protect the motion picture industry from scandal. He said that Mrs. MacLean convinced him she was telling all she knew about seeing a man on the Taylor porch just after the murder. There are others in the movie colony who are not so frank, Biscailuz hinted... A literary lover, who, with books, suggested things a less adroit man would bluntly speak. This analysis of the character of Taylor forms a basis for the murder theory upon which one group of investigators are now working...The county detectives who are following this new trail hold that Taylor was not entirely indifferent to women. He was, however, what might be called choicy--a connoisseur. According to their theory, when the fancy of the eminent picture director became fixed on a certain woman he made her the present of a book. It was a book on some subject--not too intimate--that would easily give rise to comment and discussion between the donor and the recipient. This book was followed by another, more intimate in character, which suggested some subjects not hitherto discussed between them. This book suggested another, and so on. By this time he would have thoroughly established himself with the woman... W. C. Doran, chief aide to District Attorney Woolwine, who is now in command of the united forces of investigators, announced Thursday that private interests would be disregarded in the effort to capture Taylor's slayer. The film folk who might have any knowledge bearing upon the past of Taylor will be rigidly questioned, according to Doran's statement. Among the movie characters who are expected to go on the grill there are two outstanding figures, both men, both producers of world-wide reputation, both supposed to be admirers of a celebrated film actress who was a close friend of the murdered man. Both men will be asked to account for their whereabouts on the night of the murder. One is supposed to have been confined to his home by illness. The whereabouts of the other has not been suggested.
1922-02-09	It was a lonely little Mary Miles Minter who described William D. Taylor, the murdered motion picture director. With one satin-slippered foot doubled under her, and her white hands linked about her other knee as she sat on the huge divan in her home the little blonde star said: 'He was so dignified--so austere--so wonderful! 'Everyone loved dear Old Billy Taylor. 'He was always good to everyone. 'I was always happy when I was out with him--which, unfortunately, wasn't very often.' The blue eyes of lonely Mary Miles Minter grew moist. 'It wasn't me only that he was good to--he treated everyone that way. 'He didn't have an enemy in the world--I am sure of that. He could only be compared with God--he was so good! 'Before we went to Europe,' said the girlish moving picture star, 'I saw a great deal of Mr. Taylor. 'But--after that'--her voice trailed off in silence. Again she spoke: 'After that I couldn't get him to go anywhere much. He was so interested in his work. He would bury himself in his apartment for days--yes, weeks at a stretch, when he was working on a new picture. 'I don't believe he ever had a wife. He never told me he had. And our acquaintance was such that I am sure he wouldn't deceive me--no, he wouldn't. 'I cannot believe Mr. Taylor is dead. I pinch myself to wake up--I feel that I am dreaming. 'Oh, that I could wake up and know that I had a horrible nightmare--how happy I would be!'
1922-02-09	...Information in the hands of police detectives indicates that Sands was near the scene of the crime about the time of the shooting, which is officially believed to have been about 7:50 or 7:55 p.m. a week ago yesterday. He also has been reported from reliable sources to have been in Los Angeles both before and after that day.
1922-02-09	...Several of the officers adhere closely to the theory that Sands, inspired by hate and a desire for revenge upon the man who caused him to be a fugitive from justice, slipped into the Taylor home and shot down his former employer...The officers who believe Sands committed the murder hold the opinion that he is insane, or at least mentally unbalanced because of his troubles, and believe many of his actions can be accounted for in this way.
1922-02-09	Army records and papers found yesterday in the home of William D. Taylor, according to officials of the Lasky company, prove that the murdered motion-picture director was at least a lieutenant in the British forces. Among the army records found, a pass of leave from duty in Dunkirk, dated April 4, 1919, shows that William D. Taylor was at that time a lieutenant in the British forces. An embarkation ticket bearing the name of William D. Taylor, according to the Lasky officials, shows that the director was a lieutenant, and also shows the army number F-56979, and regiment E.F.C., R.A.S.C. It is further stated that Mr. Taylor was discharged with the rank of captain.
1922-02-09	Mabel Normand's missing letters to William Desmond Taylor, slain film director, have been found. A dainty handkerchief with the initials 'M.M.M.' in a corner--apparently a keepsake of Mr. Taylor--also has been recovered. The letters, about which an investigation has been conducted for several days, were written by the famous screen actress during her friendship with the noted director, who had directed such stars as Mary Miles Minter, Mary Pickford, Betty Compson and others. Miss Normand has attempted to recover these letters, which she stated were in the possession of Mr. Taylor before his murder a week ago Wednesday night shortly after Miss Normand left his home. The officers have made every effort to find them. Yesterday the police search was rewarded when a packet of letters, admittedly written by Miss Normand, was found in a boot in Mr. Taylor's closet. The find was made during a search of the place by Captain of Detectives Adams and his aides, Detective Sergeants Cahill, Herman Cline, Cato and Murphy. Charles Eyton, manager of the Famous Players-Lasky studio, to whom Mr. Taylor was under a two-year contract, said last night that he was at the house when the letters were found, but was not present in the upstairs room when the actual discovery was made. E. C. Jessurund [sic], proprietor of the apartment court in which Mr. Taylor lived, was present, Mr. Eyton said. The letters comprised a large packet and from statements made by Chief Dep. Dist. Atty. Doran yesterday it was understood the District Attorney's office came into possession of them. Miss Normand was an intimate friend of Mr. Taylor and during times when she was in New York and he was here she wrote to him, she said, in explaining her desire to get the letters. She stated she wished to have them because she feared that some of the terms used in them might be misconstrued, although she and Mr. Taylor understood there was no serious love affair. The handkerchief, which was kept among other personal effects of Mr. Taylor, was found by Henry Peavey, negro houseman, who found his employer's body last Thursday morning. 'Here's the handkerchief all you boys have been bothering about,' Peavey says he announced. It was taken from him by the detectives and placed with the other personal effects that may have a bearing on the solution of the crime. From statements Peavey had previously made about seeing the handkerchief many weeks before the murder, however, it is believed, it has no direct bearing on the problem of who killed Mr. Taylor.
1922-02-09	...An asserted love cult, an organization of mysterious ways and membership, yesterday was reported to attaches of the District Attorney's office, and is under investigation now. Mr. Taylor is declared to have been on intimate terms with the members, if, indeed, he was not one of the cult's followers. A touch of oriental mysticism was included in the report given to the investigators... ...Mr. Manning turned over to the police the report from Arizona concerning Sands. The message from Tucson, reads as follows: 'Walter Peterson, on way to Imperial, Cal., care of H. H. Peterson, Imperial, feels certain he met Edward F. Sands at Lowell, Ariz., February 4 and 5. Description same as Los Angeles newspapers of February 7, also wore dark suit with light pin stripe, plain yellow shirt; brown shoes; soft brown hat. Sands told him he was a deserter from the British navy, and was machine- gun man for Pancho Villa. Had been in New York, British Columbia, Alaska, Los Angeles and Hollywood. (Signed) 'B. F. Daniels 'Sheriff' ...A final search of the Taylor home, conducted yesterday by Detectives Cline, Cato and Cahill while Public Administrator Bryson was removing the possessions from the apartment disclosed a bank-book belonging to Sands. This book, showing he had made deposits in a Los Angeles bank, was found behind a book case. A business card, apparently dropped in the house, also was found. A check on the person whose name appeared thereon is being made although it was regarded as probable that the card had been there some time before Mr. Taylor was shot to death. Undersheriff Biscailuz late in the day admitted the Sheriff's office is working hard on three 'leads' tending to connect prominent film people with the slaying. The Sheriff's office holds little credence in the theory that Sands committed the crime. Information in the hands of the police detectives, however, indicate that Sands was near the scene of the crime about the time of the shooting, which is officially believed to have been about 7:50 or 7:55 p.m. a week ago yesterday. He also has been reported from reliable sources to have been in Los Angeles both before and after that day.
1922-02-09	Marion, O.--Disbelief that his son, Edward Fitzgerald Snyder, could be the man known as Edward Sands and sought in connection with the murder of William D. Taylor, motion-picture director at Los Angeles, Cal., was expressed by Murray T. Snyder, manager of a local telegraph office tonight. While he did not know his present location, Mr. Snyder said he presumed his son was alive, since he had received a telegram from him in Cleveland about three months ago. Mr. Snyder said he did not know whether the son had been in California in several months...
1922-02-09	POLICE SAY FACTS IN TAYLOR MURDER ARE NOT REVEALED . Allege Movie People Are Suppressing information to Save industry. POINT TO MISSING LETTERS Theory is Now Advanced That Woman May have Shot Film Director While Embracing him. ANOTHER MAN QUESTIONED Slain Director's Property is Taken over to Arrange for a Settlement of the Estate. Special to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES,Cal., Feb. 8. Police and county detectives investigating the William Desmond Taylor murder mystery have arrived simultaneously at the conclusion that some facts are being suppressed. Some of Taylor's associates are believed to know more about the murder than they are telling. The reason for this secrecy is believed to be the desire to protect the movie industry from scandal. A new theory of the murder was advanced today and received some consideration at the Sheriff' s office. It is that Taylor was shot by a woman whom he was embracing and who had her arms around him. The theory is based on the position of the bullet found in his back and the fact that Taylor is thought to have his arms raised when he was  killed. Rage, because she had been scorned by the Director, is the motive  imputed to the woman. The mysterious disappearance of telegrams and letters from Mabel Normand, which she says were kept in a bureau drawer by Taylor, has not yet been cleared up. Among the telegrams from Miss Normand to Taylor were believed to have been a number sent by the comedienne in Los Angeles in 1919, when Taylor was "on location" in Massachusetts with one of the Famous  Players producing units. Addressed to "Captain" Taylor. These telegrams were said to have  been addressed to "Captain" Taylor. Taylor was known by a military title for some time after his discharge from the British Army. The exchange of wires was said to have been an attempt to patch up a disagreement between them arising over the attentions one was bestowing on a third member of the picture colony. Miss Normand was starring in "The Slim Princess," George Ade's picture, in 1919. it was made at the Goldwyn studios. Victor Schertzinger was Miss Normand's director. Taylor at the time was directing Mary Miles Minter in "Ann of Green Gables," made in Massachusetts. A new figure was drawn, within the scope of investigation of the case, when operatives of the District Attorney's office, it is learned, made efforts today to question one of the biggest independent figures in the motion picture business. This man, recently divorced, was said to have been madly in love with an actress who apparently held Taylor in higher esteem. He is reported to have proposed marriage on numerous occasions to the actress whose silken nightgown police detectives assert they found in Taylor's home shortly after he was shot. "Some one is going to be arrestedand suddenly-for the Taylor murder," UnderSheriff Eugene Biscail said today. "And it will not be Edward F. Sands, Taylor's missing valet. Taylor was killed through jealousy and not revenge," A fight to save the professional reputation of Mary Miles Minter was started today by her friends. Hollywood's financiers, dealt a severe blow in the Arbuckle case, are resolved that no more screen prestige in which thousands  of dollars have been invested shall be lost. Several financiers met her attorneys today at her home, Behind drawn curtains, while private detectives stood guard to keep outsiders away, the conference continued during the night. Mabel Normand, who fainted at Taylor's funeral yesterday, expected to be the director's wife, according to Henry Peavey, negro valet of the murdered director. She told me," said Peavey to police detectives, " that she and Mr. Tayior were going to be married." Miss Normand Denies Engagement. Miss Normand. who was in a state bordering on collapse at her home today denied again that she and Taylor were ever engaged. The District Attorney's office has received a letter from a woman describing a meeting between two mysterious men driving two automobiles at a street corner the night of the killing. One was heard to say to the other: " Now that we've got him we're in for  it." Both were so muffled up that their features were indistinguishable. They parted going in different directions. One of them dropped a strip of film showing the Grand Canyon with the caption "A deep and brooding mystery seems to hover over this great scar on the face of nature." Detectives are going over film found in Taylor's home to see whether this was taken from his collection. A complaint charging Sands with the murder was to be issued today by the District Attorney's office. William Doran, Chief Deputy District Attorney said there was no doubt in his mind that Sands is the guilty man. The former secretary has been a fugitive from justice for several months, charged with grand larceny and forgery. Another love letter to Taylor has been found in the effects of the murdered man. It is written in a simple schoolgirl cipher. and the translation is reproduced, except for the last paragraph: "What shall I call you, you wonderful man? You are standing on the lot, the idol of an adoring company. You have just come over and put your coat on my chair. I want to go away with you, up in the hills or anywhere, just so we'd be alone-all alone. In a beautiful little woodland lodge you'd be cook (as I can only make tea), and fetch the water and build the fire. Move to Settle Estate, Public Administrator Bryson, together with several deputies, went to the slain man's house today to remove his personal effects that the estate might be settled. Clothing, books, a phonograph and piano and various papers were taken into custody. Mr. Bryson stated that there were not papers of material interest in those that he took. He stated that the police and the District Attorney had been through them prior to his office taking charge and that any papers of value were removed by them. The estate, it was stated, would not total more than $20,000 unless unknown safety deposit boxes or bank accounts in his name are found. It is believed that there is a sum in a New York bank but investigations thus far have failed to reveal it. In Mr: Taylor's effects are several hundred canceled ohecks. Many of them are for ioans and are endorsed with the names prominent in the motion picture world. Bills, both paid and unpaid, were found. No word has been recelved concerning the disposition of the yaluables, and they will be kept in storage until the entire estate can be checked up. As no other heirs are in evidence, Mr. Bryson stated that Mr. Taylor's daughter will  be the recipient.  
1922-02-09	Proceedings at the funeral of a murder victim indicate that there are at least 30,000 unemployed in Los Angeles.
1922-02-09	(Los Angeles)--The dynamic energy of the police in the fruitless search for the solution of the mysterious murder of William Desmond Taylor was exceeded today by the massed and hurricane activity of the kings of the film industry to ring down the curtain on the unceasing flow of scandal that has surrounded the tragedy. The police centered their search on meager clues that ended in blind alleys--mysterious pink nighties that disappear--initialed handkerchiefs that cannot be found--hints of secret loves of beautiful and unnamed women stars-- rejected lovers--scented love letters-- The chain is endless. Throughout Hollywood the great men of the industry were closeted with men and women idols of the screen, making every effort to hush up the scandal. Giddy parties in the fast road house resorts have been cancelled. The lights of the white light cabarets no longer shine on decolleted and shimmy loving women of the screen.
1922-02-09	William Desmond Taylor was called 'the love wizard' by dope-haunted members of the Hollywood film colony.
1922-02-09	Navy Forwards Fall Data On Man Resembling Sands   The complete description, finger prints and specimens of the handwriting of a naval deserter believed by naval officials to resemble closely Edward F. Sands, missing butlersecretary, wanted by Los Angeles police in connection with the killing of William Desmond Taylor, motion-picture cirector, were sent to the police of the California city yesterday by Rear Admiral Thomas Washington, chief of the bureau of navigation of the Navy Department. The bureau of navigation, in transmitting its information to the Los Angeles police, made this explanation: "While the bureau cannot say with certainty that this is the man you desire apprehended, it was thought so long as the description of Strathmore was so close to that of Sands it would be advisable for you to have this information for use in making your investigation." The naval career of the deserter considered as possibly being Sands was a hectic one, according to Navy Department records, including a dishonorable discharge for embezzlement, two fraudulent reenlistments and two desertions, all within a period of eight years. Names used by the deserter included Edward Fitzgerald Snyder of Marion, Ohio, and Edward Fitz William Strathmore, of Boston, Mass. 
1922-02-09	DEATH CLEWS HIDDEN   ylor's Body "Arranged" Before Police Came, Is Charge.   SEARCH FOR SANDS PRESSED   Officials say "Influences" Hinder progress in Murder Inquiry.  Chauffeur Reports Having Heard Miss Normand and Slain Direcor Quarrel-Actress Denies Letters Have Been Returned to Her. Miss Minter Remains Secluded. County to Start New Quiz Today.   (By the Associated Press.) Los Angeles, Calif., Feb. 8.-A statement that the body of William Desmond Taylor, slain motion picture director, had been placed in order before the police arrived to investigate the tragedy was made by F. Parsons, a member of the "flying quadron" of police which answers rry calls, the police allowed it to be known today. The report Parsons gave his superiors said the body had been carefully "laid out" on the floor of Taylor's apartments, and a chair overturned across his legs. His report said by attaches of the district Atorney's office, to have "interested" them very much. Parsons, with Detective Thomas Zeigler, reached the scene before any other officers. Further investigation of the killing to be centralized in the district Attorneys office, it was announced. It was believed this centralization would result in the breaking down of "the conspiracy of silence" the police declared existed on the part of the motion picture people concerning details essential to the apprehension of the assailant.   Still Looking for Sands. The blank wall, which, they said, unidentified infiuences appear to have grown up between them and the ue facts remains unpierced. although the police department and the office of the sheriff were attempting  to make separate breaches through it into new fields of inquiry. Announcement was made that there would be a investigation of reports that attemps had been made to suppress information concerning the case. The police continued to concentrate their efforts upon search for Edward F. Sands, former secretary and butler for Taylor, missing since Taylor made a charge of grand larceny against him last August. Capt. David L. Adams, head of the detective bureau, reiterated that "there is no one else to we want and have discovered nothing that would indicate a motive for the crime except that of averting prosecution on the grand larceny charge."   Suspect in Arizona. Late today the detective bureau received through the sheriff's office a message from the sheriff at Tucson, Ariz., to the effect that a man resembling Sands was seen at Lowell, Ariz., February 4, three days after Taylor was slain. The sheriff's office here, according to the deputies working on the case, up to tonight, had wound up at a "blank wall" in every step it had taken. This investigation, it was said, had nothing to do with Sands. Included in these obstacles were the disappearance of bits of evidence, including letters written to Mr. Taylor by Mary Miles Minter and Mabel Normand, and which were believed to have been in his home when he was shot. These letters were gone immediately after the shooting, and reports yesterday said they had been returned to the writers by some unofficial agency. Miss Normand denied that she had received her letters. Miss Minter was in seclusion, her residence guarded by detectives, but a denial was issued for her also.   Initial Handkerchief doneAnother disappearing clew was a handkerchief initialed "S," but which the police did not believe was the property of Edward F. Sands, former houseman, now sought in connection with the case. The police said they believed this handkerchief belonged to a motion picture producer, and they wanted it so they would have something tangible with which to I confront him as a basis for interrogation. Former efforts to end the wide pubCONTINUED ON NINTH PAGSE.   DEATH CLEWS HIDDEN CONTINUED FROM FIRST PAGE. Publicity given the case and those connected with it were also intensified, representatives of Miss Minter especially seeking to prevent publication of the fact that her home was under  guard. The disappearance from Taylor's home of a woman's pink silk night dress, which was said by Henry Peavey, houseman, to have been kept there, was another item in the list of occurrences deterrent to the investigation and vigorous efforts was being made to find out what became of it.   Peavy to be Quizzed. The sheriff's investigators said they expected to examine Henry Peavey, house man for Taylor, in an effort to obtain corroboration or denial of certain statements made to them by other parties, and that possibly some light would be thrown on the situation by this. Peavy passed the day assisting officers in checking over Taylor's effects at the apartment where the slaying occurred. These articles were taken, after the checking, to a storage warehouse under the direction of the public administrator. The police took charge of certain articles, as possibly having some bearing on the killing, but did not state what they were. After the search, Capt. Adams said there had been no letters discovered and that he never had seen any letters adressed to Taylor with the exception of a half dozen from the director's former wife and daughter. These, he declared, had absolutely no bearing upon the case. Mabel Normand and Mary Miles  Minter. motion picture actresses. friends of the slain director. who have been questioned about the case, remained in seclusion today. Both police and sheriff's investigators said late in the afternoon no further information had been sought from them.   Navy Department Sends Dates. While Associated Press dispatches from Washington announced the Navy Department had forwarded to the police descriptions of a deserter from the navy who had used the name Strathmore, which was known to have been used by Sands, the police said they had no direct information from the department. They professed anxiety to get the official description, saying they could makes good use of it. The Los Angeles Examiner today published an unsigned letter found among Taylor's effects, in which the writer painted a vivid word picture of an imaginary life with Taylor in "a beautiful woodland lodge, where they would be alone." The letter told how the writer would cook, sweep and dust while Taylor "fetched the water and built the fire." How she would feed the birds and wait patiently darning socks for him to come home at night and how in the evenings they would sit cozily by the fire listening to the wind whistling outside." It frequently referred to Taylor as "you wonderful man." Part of the letter was withheld by the Examiner.   Quarrel With Miss Normand. A quarrel between Taylor and Mabel Normand was described by Harry Fellows, chauffeur for Taylor, according to the Los Angeles Examiner today. "I was driving Mr. Taylor and Miss Normand from the Ambassador hotel, where they had attended a New Year's eve party, to her home." Fellows is reported to have said. "On the way they had a quarrel. I don't know what it was about, but both were very much excited. Mr. Taylor took Miss Normand home and then returned to his apartment. Upon arriving there he broke down and wept. On the following morning he did up some jewelry in a package and took it to Miss Normand at her home." Harry Peavey, negro houseman for Taylor, who found the slain director's body, confirmed Fellow's statements.   Murderer Acted Quickly. Fellows said that Taylor and Miss Normand were "very affectionate." Fellows left Taylor's house at 4:30 o'clock Wednesday afternoon, on the night of which Taylor was slain. He was instructed to be sure the telephone at 7:30 o'clock, he said. He said that he telephoned from a girl's house at 7:55 o'clock, and there being   no answer from Taylor 's home, he went there. He reached the Taylor place at 8:15 o'clock, and rang the bell and knocked at the door. There was no response, so he put up the car and went home. "I am satisfied that I am the man  Mrs. Douglas MacLean saw standing on the porch and leaving the house," Fellows said. "I wore a cap and overcoat." Miss Normand had informed the police that she left Taylor between 7:30 and 7:45 o'clock and, with Fellows telephoning at 7:55 o'clock. It is indicated that the murder was committed between 7:30 and 7:55 o'clock. The Los Angeles county district attorney 's office will begin investigation of the tragedy on its own account tomorrow, it was stated by an official of that office late today. Up to this time activities of the office had been confined to assistance it has given the city police department. In the new investigation evry angle of the case will be taken up, and motion-picture people and others heretofore questioned will be sought for additional information, it was said.
1922-02-09	Goldwyn Denies Producers Suppressing Tragedy Facts New York, Feb. 9 Reports that motion picture producers were attempting to suppress the true facts in the recent slaying in Los Angeles of William Desmond Taylor, director, "are too absurd to warrant comment," Samuel Goldwyn. of the Goldwyn Pictures Corporation, said today. The public should realize, he added, that the picture industry, like any other, is made up "of all sorts of people and that being a moving picture man or woman is no more indication of character than being a plumber, steel man, a merchant or what not."
1922-02-10	A man believed to be an important witness, if not an actual conspirator in the murder of William Desmond Taylor, is in secret custody of the police at Topeka, Kansas. He admits that he was an intimate acquaintance of Edward F. Sands, fugitive valet-secretary to the slain motion picture director, and attended many orgies of women, liquor and 'dope' in the Taylor bungalow. Further admissions indicate that he was with Sands the night of the mysterious murder and that two days after it he embezzled more than $1000 from the Pacific Electric Railroad in Los Angeles to effect the escape of the pair. The suspect was taken off a Santa Fe train at Topeka, which left Los Angeles Monday evening. He took his arrest calmly. 'Well, you've got me,' he remarked to Sheriff Robert Miler, who boarded the train and grabbed him, 'and you've got a big one.' Then he admitted his name was Walter Underwood and that he was employed by the Los Angeles interurban line until his departure. 'What made you depart?' he was asked. 'Well, I embezzled more than $1000 and had to go,' he said. 'But my father is worth $300,000 and he will get me out of this scrape.' 'What do you know about the Taylor murder?' asked Sheriff Miler. 'I knew Sands and Taylor well,' he said. 'I have been on many parties at the Taylor bungalow, where Mabel Normand and other actresses were present. (Miss Normand, seen at her home here last night, denied ever knowing Underwood or ever having heard his name.) 'In fact, I was on a wild party with Sands a night or two--well, it was so wild and long drawn out I don't recall exactly when it ended.' 'Would the party have been in progress the night of the murder?' 'Well--say, are you trying to hook me for that murder?' he suddenly exclaimed, and refused to talk any more. The man admitted that he was acquainted with both William Desmond Taylor and Sands, and saw Taylor a week before his death.
1922-02-10	...Twenty-five hundred dollars drawn from the First National Bank by William D. Taylor on January 31. Twenty-five hundred dollars redeposited by Taylor on February 1, the day of his murder. This record, first disclosed yesterday, was the sensational development of a day's investigation in which District Attorney Thomas Lee Woolwine, in command, examined eleven witnesses and laid the basis for a probe that shall be so far reaching and complete as to leave no element, angle or motive without the compass of evidence. The astonishing revelation regarding the money transaction was made yesterday by Public Administrator Frank Bryson. In looking over Taylor's canceled checks and check-book stubs, Bryson came upon the check made out to 'cash.' The $2500 was withdrawn on the last of the month. Inquiry at the bank brought to light the deposit slip for the same amount and the same entry in Taylor's bank book... The countrywide search for Sands has brought some interesting, and also confusing, reports regarding him. Police Detective J. B. Worley of Long Beach yesterday found, upon going through the records, that Sands was employed as a municipal life guard in that city on August 6, last, but failed to appear for work the next day and left behind him a pay voucher for $2.50, which is still due him. Statements from the Navy Department that descriptions of Edward F. Snyder, naval deserter, very accurately fit Sands, are doubted by Murray T. Snyder, telegraph operator at Marion, O., who stated yesterday, according to dispatches, that the man sought in connection with the Taylor murder could not be his son... One of the District Attorney's first announcements during the day was that 'the letters written by Mabel Normand to Mr. Taylor and now in our possession, contain nothing bearing upon the crime or tending to offer any solution of the mystery.' It is only to question witnesses at the request of the police and not to assume command of the investigation that he has undertaken the present work, Mr. Woolwine explained yesterday in a statement reading: 'It should be distinctly understood that the District Attorney's office has, in no sense, 'taken over' the investigation of the Taylor murder, as such work is peculiarly within the province of the police authorities. The fact is that officers working on this case came to the District Attorney's office, as is their custom in many cases, and requested that this office counsel and advise with them during the progress of their investigation, and that we take statements of various persons which may tend to throw some light upon what has so far proven to be a most baffling mystery. Although the officers have worked diligently, there has not so far been developed or submitted to the District Attorney one scintilla of evidence tending to connect any one with the murder.'...
1922-02-10	...A telegram received by Administrator Bryson yesterday from Frank G. Schrenkeisen, New York attorney representing Elsie [sic] Daisy Tanner, the only known heir of Taylor, was the first intimation received her concerning any will. The telegram was to the effect that Taylor's daughter is in possession of a letter informing her that he had made out a will and that the same was in a Los Angeles safety deposit box. Inasmuch as no will was discovered in the only box that Taylor is known to have possessed, three theories have been advanced by the Public Administrator. The first, and most probable, is that Taylor is the owner of another box, the location of which was known only to himself, a box that contains documents of a highly confidential nature pertaining to the many baffling incidents of his life that have so far blocked all efforts of the police. The second theory is that Taylor destroyed his will. This explanation is scouted by close friends of the late director, as he is known to have been very methodical in regard to business affairs, and the fact no will was found in his effects has been a matter of much conjecture. The last explanation, and one which is given some credence, is that Taylor left bequests to a certain member of the film colony with whom he is known to have been on intimate terms, and that shortly following the discovery of the murder this paper was removed. That the star who might have been the beneficiary of this bequest might have been damaged rather than benefited in view of all the surrounding circumstances, is the ground advanced for this belief.
1922-02-10	Tracing the course of the $2500 check, said to have been drawn by William D. Taylor, slain motion picture director, on January 31, and redeposited on the day of his death, investigators today discovered that the film official had placed an order with a local concern for upwards of $3000 worth of diamonds. The diamonds were never delivered, it is said, and this may account for the fact that the money was replaced in the bank. Taylor, the police say, may have considered using the diamonds as a gift and later to have withdrawn this decision. While no details of the new angle to the case were made known, it is said a prominent motion picture actress, mentioned in connection with the case, also visited the jewelry shop in question on the same day... The district attorney said that nowhere in his investigation had he met with any reticence of movie stars or others to furnish information... ...The selection of David Hartford as successor to Taylor, a former director in the Motion Picture Directors' Association, was announced today by that organization...
1922-02-10	While Mabel Normand, in a darkened room slept the sleep of exhaustion A. McArthur, publicity director for the Sennett studios and the Cerebus at present standing between the star and the press, today dictated this statement: 'Miss Normand and Taylor never were in love with each other. Why in the name of sense do the newspapers keep on harping on that silly stuff? 'Miss Normand was never engaged to Mack Sennett and he never was jealous of Taylor.' 'Mrs. John Borden of Chicago, claiming to be a close friend of Miss Normand, claims that Miss Normand was engaged to Sennett,' I suggested. 'Then she was talking nonsense,' was the emphatic retort. 'I didn't mean to say anything further for publication, but I'll say that. All we are trying to do is to keep the poor little girl's name out of the papers. Every time it occurs in connection with the murder it injures her.' 'What about the statement of Underwood, arrested in Topeka? He says a woman killed Taylor. Has Miss Normand any theories on that subject?' McArthur turned about and made a gesture of utter disgust. 'The poor nut,' he blurted. 'Underwood is crazy, bughouse. His statement is bunk, just bunk. 'Honest, we are not going to give out any more statements for Miss Normand. We are not going to deny or affirm. We are tired, burned out. 'Walter Underwood is just a poor boob. Why should we care what he says?' 'Are you certain Miss Normand is asleep?' I inquired. 'She should be,' replied Mr. McArthur, peeping between some heavy velvet curtains that separated the living-room from a rear chamber. 'Yes, she's asleep and I wish the gossip was as quiet. That's all. 'For God's sake, keep the girl's name out of this mess.'
1922-02-10	The theory that Walter Underwood knew Edward F. Sands or had any knowledge of the crime was flouted by W. T. Maddex, Underwood's step-father. 'The boy was a lover of notoriety,' he said. 'I am certain that he never knew Sands or Taylor either. He would sometimes tell his mother in an off-hand way that he had met some of her friends or acquaintances on the street and it would later develop there was no truth in his story.' According to Maddex, Underwood was a lover of adventure. Maddex admitted that authorities had made the right arrest in connection with the embezzlement charge. 'We have both told Walter above all things else to be honest,' Maddex said seriously. 'I have many times heard his mother tell him that.' Maddex, although he has the utmost confidence and friendship of Pacific Electric officials, by virtue of the fact that he was formerly manager of the Redondo line, said he would make no move to soften his step-son's punishment. 'I had concluded that since Walter is 31 years old he is old enough to understand fully what he did. If he was let off this time, it might mean only a repetition of the offense.'
1922-02-10	Two pairs of shoes, one formerly the property of Taylor, and the other of Edward F. Sands, were locked in a cabinet in Taylor's apartment, 404-B South Alvarado street, Friday. Sands' shoes were found by E. C. Jessurun, Taylor's landlord, in a back closet on the second floor of the Taylor bungalow. They are a light tan in color, short and broad in shape and are so stretched to accommodate Sands' particularly shaped feet to afford a good means of identification in Jessurun's opinion. Jessurun said he had informed the police about the shoes, but they had not expressed any interest in them. A detailed search made by Jessurun in the Taylor garage late Friday disclosed a pair of women's rubber bathing slippers, small in size. Also an empty leather small arms holster was found in the garage. In an old torn pair of trousers was found a white handkerchief with the initial R in one corner. Efforts were made by investigators Friday to find Ed Fowler, chauffeur for Taylor, following the discharge of Sands. Fowler is said to have known Sands and it is believed that he may have information to his whereabouts within the past few months. Fowler, who was discharged by Taylor, is not under suspicion himself. More than a score of automobile supply slips, receipted by Fowler, were found on the wall of the Taylor garage. ...In an effort to locate William Desmond Taylor's lost will Public Administrator Frank Bryson Friday began a search of safety deposit boxes in Los Angeles' 100 banks and bank branches. 'I have some of Taylor's keys,' Bryson said, 'but I don't know what they fit.' The keys were tried out on several safe deposit boxes in downtown banks Thursday but found not to fit... The Dope Dragon again reared its sinister crest in the Taylor murder mystery Friday. A peddler of narcotics, well known to the police, has disappeared from his Hollywood home, missing since about the day of the murder. None of his studio acquaintances are able to give a clue to his whereabouts. The man knew William Desmond Taylor well, although the picture director is not suspected of having been a drug addict. Taylor, like every other motion picture director, was thrown in contact with 'hop heads.' Among his acquaintances were women of the studios who were known to be addicted to dope. The mystery of the dope peddler's disappearance is believed of sufficient importance to warrant a rigid investigation. Among those slated for quizzing at the district attorney's office today are several acquaintances of the doper, who, it is hoped, may give some clue to his whereabouts. If he is found he will be asked to account for his whereabouts the night of Wednesday, February 1. If he can do this satisfactorily it will eliminate him from direct connection with the murder. Then he will be closely questioned about any women patrons who were friends of Taylor.
1922-02-10	The field of suspects in the Taylor murder mystery is narrowed down to four men and Miss X--mysterious and unknown woman, in an analysis of experts, made Friday. Random clues, reports of William Desmond Taylor's past life and love affairs, letters disappearing and reappearing, handkerchiefs and the 'pink silk nightie'--all were consolidated today into a single mass of evidence. District Attorney Thomas Lee Woolwine is in command of the various agencies searching for Taylor's slayer. All new evidence unearthed will be placed at his disposal. Suspect Number One The first of the men suspects is Edward F. Sands, who according to one theory might have both planned and executed the crime. He is being sought by one branch of investigators as the possible murderer because Taylor had threatened him with prosecution on grand larceny charges. The blackmail theory involves this former servant. Taylor, bank records show, drew out $2500 a day or so before the murder and then returned it to the bank the day of the shooting. This, according to the police, might indicate that Taylor had decided to play blackmail, then changed his mind and refused the demands at the last minute and met his death refusing them. Suspect Number Two The second man upon which the attention of the combined investigators centered is the idle son of a multi-millionaire eastern manufacturer who is said to have been desperately in love with the actress whose dainty nightgown was found among Taylor's possessions following the tragedy. This young man is said to have come from the east a few months ago and to have been loitering about the fringe of the California movie colony, attracted by the actress. He is reported to have been secretly betrothed to the owner of the 'pink silk nightie.' Suspect Number Three The third man who was included in the list of possible suspects was today described as an 'independent motion picture figure' whose phenomenal rise within the last five years has been one of the most remarkable accomplishments of the motion picture industry. He was said to have been under investigation from the first. It is said he was in love with the same actress mentioned in connection with the 'young man from the east' and to have been divorced by his wife because of infidelity. The Woman Angle Another motion picture executive is referred to as 'Suspect No. 4.' The mysterious Miss X is not a pointed reference to any one actress among those of Taylor's acquaintances. She is merely the police theory that a jealous woman instigated the slaying of the director.
1922-02-10	The belief of detectives that if Edward F. Sands, valet-secretary to William D. Taylor, killed his employer, he was insane, was bolstered last night by information tending to show that the missing fugitive was mentally deranged. 'I don't know what I'd do if I lost my job and didn't have any money,' Sands is reported to have said. 'When I get to be 35 years old I'm going to blow my head off. I don't see any use of people living after that age. They're not good for anything.' Sands always carried a .45-caliber Colt revolver, Mr. Brettner said. One morning Mr. Brettner went to Sands's room and found him asleep. He touched him on the shoulder to awaken him. Sands turned over like a flash and pressed the weapon against Mr. Brettner, but when he saw who it was he turned over and went to sleep again without saying a word.
1922-02-10	Sands Insane, Friend Thinks The belief of detectives that if Edward F. Sands, valet-secretary to William D. Taylor, killed his employer, he was insane, was bolstered last night by information tending to show that the missing fugitive was mentally deranged. George S. Brettner, who became well acquainted with Sands before the latter's disappearance more than a year ago, [sic] told of actions and remarks of a peculiar nature. At that time Sands was talking of joining a foreign navy or going to South America, according to Mr. Brettner. He said he was becoming restless and wanted a change, but spoke no ill of Mr. Taylor. 'I don't know what I'd do if I lost my job and didn't have any money,' Sands is reported to have said. 'When I get to be 35 years old I'm going to blow my head off. I don't see any use of people living after that age. They're not good for anything. I used to be chief petty officer in the Quartermaster Corps aboard ships, and I guess I might as well enlist and be taken care of until I'm ready to shoot myself.' Sands always carried a .45-caliber Colt revolver, Mr. Brettner said. One morning Mr. Brettner went to Sands's room and found him asleep. He touched him on the shoulder to awaken him. Sands turned over like a flash and pressed the weapon against Mr. Brettner, but when he saw who it was he turned over and went to sleep again without saying a word. 'Sands was keeping company with a girl who frequented Wilson's Dancing Academy,' said the informant. 'He seemed to be infatuated with her. He weighed about 185 pounds at that time and was trying to reduce to 150 pounds. I used to find him at Mr. Taylor's home perusing the Encyclopedia Brittanica by the hour. Sometimes he would refuse to speak to me, and when I'd meet him a few days later he would apologize and say he had been feeling depressed.' ...Mr. Brettner said he did not believe Sands killed the director unless perhaps he was seized with an insane obsession.
1922-02-10	The police believe they have found the origin of the revolver with which William Desmond Taylor, film director, was slain, it was learned on reliable authority last night. Information has been placed in their possession that they think shows where the weapon was purchased, together with a description of the purchaser. Capt. of Detectives Adams was in conference on this point with one of his men late last night. If the data obtained are correct, the police believe they are on the verge of solving the mystery. Mary Miles Minter, film star whose admiration of William Desmond Taylor, slain film director, has been admitted by her, was one of the first witnesses who appeared at Dist.-Atty. Woolwine's office for the purpose of giving a full statement of her knowledge of any facts that may aid in solving the Taylor murder mystery, that has baffled investigators for more than a week. The fact that she was closeted for two hours with the officials at the District Attorney's office was learned last night. During yesterday's session, which lasted from 10 a.m. until after midnight in Mr. Woolwine's office, thirteen other witnesses were examined. Miss Minter's appearance at the District Attorney's office and her questioning there have not been made know or admitted by the officials, although the visit occurred last Tuesday. Ostensibly Mr. Woolwine assumed charge of taking statements in cooperation with the police officers only yesterday. That he questioned Miss Minter before the other witnesses is regarded as significant in some respects, since it is known that Miss Minter was an intimate friend of Mr. Taylor, and is reported by employees of Mr. Taylor to have held first place in his regard for many months. Another film star of first magnitude has made a statement for the purposes of aiding the investigation, it was stated upon excellent authority late in the day. She is declared to be Mabel Normand, actress who was perhaps the last friend to see Mr. Taylor alive a week ago Wednesday night, when she left his apartments about 7:45 p.m. Both Miss Normand and Miss Minter have suffered nervous collapses since the discovery of their friend's dead body with a bullet through his back. John G. Mott, attorney for Miss Minter, declined last night to comment on the fact that Miss Minter was at the District Attorney's office last Tuesday for two hours. He said: 'I can only say that Mary Miles Minter is cooperating with the officials and is willing and ready to cooperate fully with them.' At the home of both Miss Minter and Miss Normand, it was emphatically denied that either had made a statement attributed to Miss Normand yesterday concerning an asserted discussion between her and Mr. Taylor over her letters the night he was slain. The purported statement was that Miss Normand asked for her letters, and was told they had been sent to one or two high officials in the Famous-Players Lasky studio... The first witness last night before the following officials--Mr. Woolwine, Chief Dep. Dist.-Atty. Doran, and Detective Sergeants Cato, Cahill and Winn--was Capt. Robertson, formerly of the United States Infantry, and an intimate friend of the dead man. Capt. Robertson knew Mr. Taylor for three years. He was one of the first persons to enter the home the morning the murder was discovered. His statement concerning the physical facts at the scene of the crime was regarded as important. His knowledge of Mr. Taylor's life in recent years also was valuable in aiding the investigation. Others questioned last night included Mr. and Mrs. Charles Maigne, the former being a motion picture director, and one of the first in the Taylor home after the murder; Arthur Hoyt, actor and friend of Mr. Taylor, and others, whose names have figured in the inquiry; Verne Dumas, a neighbor of Mr. Taylor, and Neil Harrington, also a neighbor. Mr. Dumas, director in the Cal-Mex Oil Company, was among those who responded to the alarm after the murder. He also saw the blind in the front room of the Taylor apartment raised about four inches when he came home on the night of the slaying about 11 o'clock. The light was on at that time, but the fact that the curtain was raised was unusual, he said. Mr. Harrington, also a broker, was the first person to enter the house upon the discovery of the body. Every detail of the arrangement of the furniture, the exact location and angle of the body and other physical facts were sought from him by the investigators. Arthur Hoyt and Mr. and Mrs. Maigne stated upon leaving the District Attorney's office near midnight that they had promised not to divulge the nature of their information Reports published in a local newspaper that a woman was in the Taylor home an hour before Miss Normand left there the night of the murder were denied by Mr. Woolwine, who stated no such information has been obtained. A new witness who is believed to have seen the slayer lurking near the scene of the crime within a hour after the shooting on the 1st inst., was questioned in the afternoon. This new witness, Patrolman Long, was the last from whom a statement was taken in the afternoon. He was the seventh person called to the District Attorney's office, which is working in cooperation with the police detectives. Others from whom statements were taken in shorthand include Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean, both widely known in filmdom; their maid, Christine Jewett; Harry Fellows, former chauffeur and more recently an assistant director for Mr. Taylor; Howard Fellows, chauffeur for the slain man; and Henry Peavey, colored butler-valet, who discovered his employer's body on the morning following the crime... One of the outstanding developments of the day was the assurance given by Mrs. MacLean, it is declared, that she could recognize the man she saw leaving Mr. Taylor's home at 404-B South Alvarado street soon after the fatal shot was heard. Another important point was set at rest when she was asked to look at Howard Fellows, the chauffeur, to see whether he could have been the man she saw. It is understood she positively stated he was not the man. This factor was injected into the case by a peculiar circumstance. Mr. Fellows, who says he had been instructed by Mr. Taylor to call for him, went to the Taylor home and rang the doorbell about 8 o'clock, or a few moments afterward. It was believed he might have been the man seen by Mrs. MacLean, for he had said that after getting no response he walked away. Mrs. MacLean, her husband and her maid were accompanied to the District Attorney's office yesterday morning and taken into a room adjoining that in which Mr. Fellows was waiting. She was asked whether he was the man and her answer in the negative is understood to have been positive... The recently 'refound' letters of Mabel Normand--letters which she wrote to Mr. Taylor and which could not be found in his possession for many days after his murder--still were the center of much discussion and speculation yesterday. Mr. Woolwine's office has them now. They have been examined. They contain nothing regarded as particularly essential to the solution of the crime. The District Attorney's office feels the letters were in the clothes closet, under lock and key, hidden in a boot, during all the search of the premises. These assurances came from the officials on the case. ...Mr. Woolwine ordered transcripts of the testimony as soon as the shorthand notes could be transcribed. This significant order was taken to mean that the statements of the witnesses will be checked carefully, and immediately, one against the other...
1922-02-10	New York, Feb. 9.--Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, mother of Mary Miles Minter, defends her daughter from insinuations given publication by the Taylor murder case in a telegram received today by Arthur James, editor of the Motion Picture World. The message reads: 'Mary adored Taylor as a child would her father and is badly broken up over tragedy. Friendship between the two was beautiful and she feels that she has lost one of her dearest friends. Mary has made complete statement to authorities and they scout at newspaper insinuations that Taylor may have been slain because of jealousy over Mary. She is refusing to talk for publication but is aiding authorities in every way to solve mystery. Letters in press only those of adoring young girl to man almost three times her age. (Signed) 'Charlotte Shelby'
1922-02-10	Investigators of the Sheriff's force believe that yesterday they completely eliminated Edward F. Sands as a suspect in the murder of director William Desmond Taylor, following a new conference with Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean. Undersheriff Biscailuz and Chief of Criminal Investigation Manning visited Mrs. MacLean, wife of the motion-picture actor, at her residence at the direction of Sheriff Traeger. Mrs. MacLean was questioned prior to being summoned to the District Attorney's office. She is the only witness who saw the unidentified man leaving the Taylor residence a few minutes after she heard the shot fired on the night the director was slain. Mrs. MacLean stated positively, according to the Sheriff's office, that the man seen by her was not Sands. She knew Sands' appearance well, she said, and was unable to recognize the stranger who leisurely walked out of Mr. Taylor's apartments. 'We have been assured of Mr. and Mrs. MacLean's fullest cooperation in the investigation,' said Undersheriff Biscailuz. 'They told us all they know in complete detail. The man seen by her was neither Sands, nor Harry [sic] Fellows, the chauffeur, who rang the bell at Taylor's apartment shortly after 8 o'clock. She is confident she can identify the man who left the place if we can find him and we feel that her assistance in this direction may be of great value.'...
1922-02-10	STARTS NEW INQUIRY OF TAYLOR MURDER District Attorney Begins Reexamination of All the witnesses in the Case. MISSING LETTERS FOUIND Sheriff's Office Announces That Sands has Now Been Eliminated Entirely. Special to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Cal., Feb. 9.-A new and sweeping investigation of the murder of William Desmond Taylor, motion picture director, was begun today by District Attorney Woolwine and Deputy District Attorney Doran. Henry Peavey. Taylor's servant, and Howard Fellows, his chauffeur, and others were questioned today and the investigation will include the re-examination of all the film actresses mentioned in the case. Peavey and Fellows were escorted to the District Attorneyss office by police detectives and behind locked doors made long statements. Doran announced that the other witnesses, including the actresses, will be called in rapid succession. He expects to uncover many new facts concerning the life of the slain director, and other details which will aid them in a solution of the crime. Following the questioning of Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean late today the Sheriff's office announced that it had eliminated Sands entirely from the Taylor case. Mrs. MacLean knew Sands and is positive that the man she saw leaving Taylor's apartments immediately after she heard the shot was not Sands. At the same time it was reported today that a revolver which may have been used in the murder of Taylor has been found. A man, whose name and address are known to investigators, was said to have found it near the Taylor home the day after the murder, and to have kept it without suspecting it might have been the weapon used in the slaying. Detectives were sent out to locate this man and to confirm his reported discovery. The gun was said to have been found in an alley, where Taylor's slayer may have thrown it in his flight. Missing Letters Are Found. The letters and telegrams written by Mabel Normand to Taylor, which had been missing for several days and which were located yesterday and turned over to Chief Deputy District Attorney W. C. Doran last night, were inspected in secret today. Doran, who is working under the direction of Disstrict Attorney Woolwine, read the letters and telegrams in his office, but declined to make their contents public or to comment upon their contents. The letters and telegrams formed a fair-seized package. Doran declined to state where they had been found. With the letters and telegrams Doran received a woman's handkerchief, a dainty place and silk piece with the initials M. M. M. embroidered in one corner. The handkerchief was found among Taylor's effects and will be retained at the District Attorney's office during the investigation. Rumors that the District Attorney's office has undertaken an investigation of reports that thousands of dollars are being spent by motion picture interests to quiet the investigation of Taylor's death were denied today. Doran stated that police detectives and others have been in close touch with the District Attorney's office and that no attempts to block the investigation had been encountered by him so far. The fact that the District Attorney's office has taken charge of the investigation is said to please motion picture officials interested in the case, With Woolwine and Doran in charge the investigation will proceed systematically, it is said, and without unwarranted suspicion being directed against innocent persons. Police Detectives Herman Cline, Walter Murphy, J.E. Winn, F. B. Cato and William Cahill, who have been working on the case under Captain of Detectives Dave Adams, announced that they had been turning over every bit of evidence they have found to Doran, and that from now on they will continue to report to the District Attomey's office." Detective Sergeant E.R. King, assigned to the District Attorney's office, was today at work on a "new lead" which may result in the arrest of a man said to have been a close friend of the slain director. King investigation was in line with the work of the District Attorney's office and he declined to give information concerning the man he was seeking. Plan complete Co-operation. Complete coroperation between the police, the Sheriff's office and the Disstrict Attorney's office will mark the investigation from today on. Plans to work out the solution of the case, which appeared near in view of the centralized efforts, were made at a conference Taylor had sworn warrants for grand larceny and embezzlement. GOLDWYN DEFENDS MOWIES. Denies Industry is Trying to Suppress Facts in Taylor Murder. continued from Page I, Column S. in Doran's office attended by Captain of Detectives Adams, Sheriff Traeger and police detectives and deputy sheriffs who have been assigned to the investigation. New information concerning the man in a plaid cap and heavy muffler whom Mrs. Douglas MacLean saw fleeing from the Taylor house after the murder was supplied to detectives by Mrs. William McBurney, 710 South Alvarado Street. Mrs. McBurney said she and her husband saw a man answering the description of the man seen by Mrs. MacLean lurking in the shadows of heavy foliage near the Alvarado Hotel, two blocks away from Taylor's home, on the night of the murder. Mrs. McBurney said she saw the man about 9:45 o'clock, which was more than two hours after the time fixed by the police for the murder. It was considered probable today that the new County Grand jury will be impanelled soon at Woolwine's request to take up the Taylor investigation. This move will probably be made when the evidence accumulated by the District Attorney's office has reached a stage where an indictment or indictments can be requested. Word was received from San Diego during the day that the body of a suicide in the morgue there was believed to be Sands, but a later investigation developed that the dead man was not the missing servant against whom The motion picture industry should not be condemned because of one or two unfortunate occurrences, said Samuel Goldwyn, President of the Goldwyn Pictures Corporation, yesterday in a statement on the Taylor case. "The report that motion picture producers are attempting to suppress the true facts in the Taylor case would be too absurd to warrant comment," he said, "were it not that many thousands of people will read this report and believe it. as they have believed other false stories published about the motion picture industry. "The moving picture industry comprises a population greater than that of  almost any city in the world. No city ever gets through the year without many regrettable happenings. It is as unjust to say that the moving pictures need cleaning up as to speak of cleaning up the United States. "The good and helpful things the industry is doing for the betterment of the world are never chronicled on the front page, but let anybody connected with the movies get into trouble and not only he but the whole industry is in the headlines for many days. "When the industry was fortunate enough to secure so great an executive as Will H. Hays for co-operation in its problems, the wildest rumors of political plans and fantastic statements that he was to be insured for $2,000,000 were published everywhere. "I cannot ask the newspapers to ignore the occurrences in so important an activity, but I do ask the public to read these stories in their true perspective and realize that the moving picture industry is made of all sorts of people and that being a moving picture man or woman is no more indication of character than being a plumber, a steel man, a banker, a merchant or what not." 
1922-02-10	Another scavenger's holiday. William Desmond Taylor was in life a man respected by his associates. He was an artist of high ideals. He was hard working, earnest, capable. He was a gentleman. But he was a motion picture director. So out come the scavengers to burrow in the garbage can, seeking morsels, titbits, little delicacies of ripe dirt to roll their tongues around. Out they come, headlong, before the corpse is cold. They wallow in a mud of their own making. They drag a man's name through that mud. With the vicious glee of the virtuous they make great sticking plasters of the mud and hurl them broadside at the motion picture colony. Instead of concentrating all their efforts toward finding the assassin and trying him for murder, they drag the dead man forth and put him on trial. He has committed the crime of being shot down without warning from behind. Away goes his name through the mud, swishing, swashing. Why? Because he was a motion picture director. It is always open season for anyone connected with the motion picture business. Having put him on trial instead of his assassin, what have they found? The one outstanding fact that he had taken stage name, a very common thing, indeed, in the profession of entertainment. They make this the basis for a claim that he had led a dual life. Puerile, imbecilic, certainly. But the scavengers must have their holiday. The found some letters. These proved nothing. They were not even very entertaining. So the scavengers, for want of better sport, have turned their mud guns on the picture colony and there is a great splattering. Is this fair? There are estimated to be about 30,000 persons engaged in the picture industry in Hollywood and its environs. Ninety-nine per cent of these, I venture to say, lead lives as clean and as decent as the best of people in other professions and other industries; they are 'just folks.' The other one per cent are more noisy, I think, than vicious, they can't be very wicked. They are too open about it. They flaunt their peccadilloes with a too-apparent wish to have them noticed. They wear noisy clothes, ride in noisy cars, live noisy lives. By the very nature of their employment, everything they do receives publicity. They are definitely in the public eye, under a microscope. Press agents record their smallest fads and fancies. Every move they make comes out magnified, exaggerated. And, of course, the bad comes out with the good, magnified, exaggerated. A home brew party in a four-room bungalow becomes 'a Neroesque orgy in a mansion.' The tongues of the righteous wag. But the noisy ones are no worse than their own prototypes elsewhere in every community. It is simply that more attention is attracted to them. It is the price of publicity. Hollywood, I should say, is about the average American community. A campaign of calumny against Berkeley, against San Jose, against any city of the size you can name, would have just as much reason for being as the present campaign against Hollywood. And there are just as many honest, decent men and women in the picture business as in any other business, even if they do not go around with pious looks mouthing the scavenger's chant, 'I am holier than thou.' People in glass houses shouldn't make home brew.
1922-02-10	Los Angeles--...Dumas said that on the night of the murder he had noticed that Taylor's study window shade was up several inches so anyone could have looked into the room and have seen him lying dead on the floor.
1922-02-10	...The first of the scandals rose to the breeze last spring when a young woman scenario writer committed suicide. The underground reports were to the effect one of the principal executives of the Famous Players organization was involved with her. At the time several of the publications building up circulation by promulgating the scandals of the industry were reported as having been bought up to prevent the publication of the facts...
1922-02-10	FIND NORMAND NOTES   Detectives Locate Love Letters. in Taylor 's Old Shoes.   DIRECTOR'S HOME SEARCHED Paper Clipping of Murder and Army Records Also Discovered.   Centralized Investigation opened by District Attorney-Testimony of Film Stars and Studio Manager Withheld-San Pedro Suicide, Suspected of Being Former Butler, Not Sands.   (By the Associated Press.) Los Angeles, Feb. 9. -A new and comprehensive investigation into the  circumstances surrounding the slaying of William Desmond Taylor, noted film director, was under way here today, directed by the district attorney. Yesterday and today the district attorney gathered into his hands the scattered threads of evidence that had been drawn out by the police, the sheriff 's office and independent investigators, and tonight he was attempting to weave them into some sort of pattera that would disclose what took place just before Taylor lost his life. One item gathered for this prospective fabric of fact and deduction! was a packet of letters written by Mabel Normand, motion picture actress, and which disappeared from Taylor 's home after his death. These  letters were rediscovered yesterday) concealed among Taylor 's effects. Their contents were not disclosed and Miss Normand, who was in seclusion today, declined to comment on the new turn of events.   Studio Manager Quizzed. Witnesses questioned today in the investigation, which it was announced would be complete and would takes other inquiries into consideration only so far as facts learned by them might be helpful, included Charles  Eyton, general manager of the Famous Players -Lasky studio here, at which Taylor was employed as at director. Mr. Eyton testified at the coroner 's inquest that he was the first to suspect that Taylor's death had been caused by other than natural events. He said he had insisted that the body be examined for wounds, and it was his insistence, according! to his statement at the inquest, that caused discovery of the fatal wound. Mr. Eyton had a conference today with the district attorney, Thomas L. Woolwine, and another one today in which W. C. Doran, an assistants district attorney, as well as Mr. Woolwine participated. Others summoned to the district attorney's office today and questioned included Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean, whose home adjoined that of  Taylor, and who had given statements  at the inquest and to the police; Henry Peavy, Taylors houseman; Howard Fellows, chauffeur for Taylor, and Harry Fellows, brother of the chauffeur, and an assistant director. The district attorney declined to disclose the results of these interviews.   "Not Sands," Says Mrs. McLean. Mrs. Douglas McLean and her maid were said to have told the district attorney's representatives that a man they saw near the Taylor home the night of the slaying was not Edward F. Sands, the missing butler, nor Howard Fellows, Taylors chauffeur, who has stated he called atthe apartments that night in obedience to orders. Sheriff 's deputies working on the case obtained similar statements from  Mrs. MeLean and her maid and have announced their conclusion that "these eliminate Sands as a suspect." Mary Miles Minter, film actress. formerly directed by Taylor and said to have been a close friend, announced through her attorney her readiness to assist the officers of the police department and the district attorney's office in any possible manner.    Knows Nothing to Tell. "Miss Minter has given the officers of the police department and the disstrict attorney's office all the information she could," said her attorney. "She has refused to talk to newspaper men because the strain of the last few days has been great and because there is nothing she can tell them that will assist in the solution of the crime beyond a clear account of what little she knows, given to the proper authorities. "She knows of nothing that can be considered evidence, but she placed herself at the disposal of the investigators and is willing to supply any! information she may possess."   Rumor of Finding Gun. Another development today was a well defined rumor that some person had found a revolver, possibly the weapon with which Taylor was slain, shortly after the murder became known. This rumor was brought to the attention of the district attorney and the police, both offices disciaiming any direct knowledge of the purported discovery, but both saying that cognizance was being taken of the rumor and efforts made to prove he for disprove it. CONTINUED ON FOWRTH PACE.   FIND NORMAND NOTES CONTINUED FROM FIRST PACE.   While these local developments kept  the officials engaged, word came that the San Diego authorities believed the body of a suicide lying in the morgue there might be that of Edward F. Sands, missing houseman, against whom Taylor swore out warrants for grand larceny and embezzlement, and who has been sought earnestly by officers eager to learn what he knew of the murder. Investigation, however, developed that the dead man was not Sands. It also was announced today that the public administrator was searching for a second safe deposit box held by Taylor. One was found and opened its contents being negligible. There was no direct evidence that he had another box, but the authorities  said many men divided their documents in two or three boxes, and it he was possible that the search would yield something. Inventory of Taylor 's estate so far located has disclosed little except some automobiles, personal effects, and a small amount of cash.   Letters Hidden In Boot. The letters, for which Miss Nor mand searched Taylor 's apartments vainly, were found in a boot in a closet in the Taylor home by detectives, it was said. A final search through Taylorss apartments by the public administrator disclosed hidden in a leather case, a newspaper clipping of the slaying here within the last few months of Leon J. Manfre, also known as Mumfria, by Mrs. Esther Alhano. It gave details of the affair, together with  the alledged threat of the dead man that he would kill Mrs. Albano, "as he bad killed her husband," unless she gave him $500 and her jewelry. Another find was the original manuscript of the scenario of "Anne of Green Gables," the first motion picture in which Mary Miles Minter was starred, and which was directed by Taylor several years ago. It was said that the initials "C. C. C" appeared frequently on stubbs in Taylor 's check books, alse found in the apartments. District Attorney Woolwine, it was angouneed, turned the case of Mrs. Madalynne Conner Obenchain, on trial for murder, over to his chief deputy, and devoted his attention to the mo  tion picture colony murder. Complex angles of acts that occurred since the murder which investigators say give strong indications of connection with the murder itself, were placed under exhaustive scrutiny. Central Investigation Outlined. The centralized investigation will be carried on as follows: Questioning of several wealthy and  infinential producers, one of whom has been questioned before in the case. Questioning of at least four motion picture actresses, in an effort to develop further information concerning the Theory of a woman being the mo tive for the slayang Questioning of two men, not con nected with motion pictures, also lines of "jealousy," as a motive in the case. Close examination of former employes of the slain director in order to reveal intimacies of the past came under their observation Unexplained circumstances surround movements of the packet of letters, including letters from Mabel Normand to Taylor, which was found by a police detective in the Taylor house yesterday.   Miss Normand 's visit. Aabel Normand, who was in com pany with Taylor until 7:30 o'clock on Wednesday night a week ago, within an hour of the time which investigators fixed as the time of the murder, visited the house the following morning and sought these letters. She said they might be misinterpreted if read by the public, but denied that a love affair existed between Taylor herself. Two days ago reports were prevalent that the letters had been returned to Mabel Normand and other letters written by Mary Miles Minter had been returned to her. Statements were issued in behalf of each actress denying that any letters were returned to them. Henry Peavey, Taylor's negro houseman, who found the body of the morning after the shooting took place, was brought into police headquarters for further exarinatio detectives.   Houseman Finds Handkerchief. He was present at the public administrators removal of effects from the Taylor house and during the progress of the removal announced that he had made a find. "Here's the handkerchief all you boys have been bothering about," he said. "it was a dainty woman 's handgerchief with the initials "M. M. M." in a corner. Peavey, following an hour closeted with police detectives, was taken by them to the district attorney' s office.   Army Papers Found. Army records and papers found today in the home of Taylor prove, according to officials of the Famous Players-Lasky company, that the  murdered film director, was at least a lieutenant, if not a captain, as claimed, in the British forces during the world war. Among the records was a pass of leave from duty in Dunkirk, dated April 4, 1919, naming Taylor at that time as a lieutenant. An embarkatien ticket, bearing the name of William D. Tayior, the officials stated, showed also that he was a lieutenant. It bore the army number F-56979 and the regiment EFC, RASC. It is further stated Taylor was discharged with the rank of captain. Efforts to trace Taylors army record are being made in London.
1922-02-10	Hollwood Proves Magnet For All Ranks of Society   Every Type of Character and Morality Is Mingled by Lure of Motion Picture Fame. Hundreds Live Like Other Ordinary American FamiliesSudden Prosperity of Some Said to Be Cause of Seamy Incidents.   Los Angeles, Feb. 9 (By the Asso ciated Press). The recent murder of William Desmond Taylor, widely known motion picture director, has caused public attention to turn toward the motion picture colony at Hollywood here, and numerous inquiries about that colony and the life of its people have followed. Hollywood as the general name assigned to a section of Los Angeles lying about 8 miles from the downtown business section. Many motion picture studias are scattered through Hollywood and thousands of persons from all classes of society are employed at the studios. Where so many types are gathered, there are all variations of character and morality. Some of those who come to the lots as humble extras succeed because of some trait of personality in reaching stardom almost before they have become known generally in the industry itself.   Reasons for Advance. Sometimes it is real ability that drives them upward. Sometimes it is the favor of director or preducer: sometimes it is a pair of cross-eyes or funny legs or unusual size that provide the needed leverage for the lift to success. When people spring from poverty to affluence, often within a few weeks, their mental equipment is not always equal to the strain. They have money, an unaccustomed toy, and they spend it in bizarre ways. They may buy automobiles of the usual 'styles and finish, known in the trade here as "movie trick machines," or they may take to having "wild parties," or they may indulge in other forms of relaxation and excitement. Many of them spend all they make. One well-known male stare testified in the divorce court recently that he was getting $700 a week: he said he had $700 in bank as pay day had just passed: that he had three automobiles, an extensive wardrobe and no other assets.   Many Turn to Drink. Many of them come in from other work, in which habits, have become fixed on them. In the preprohibition days there were many "country clubs" and all-night restaurants that drew a heavy patrenage from the ranks of motion-picture people. They went there to see each other and to be seen by each other and the public. Sometimes they drank a good deal. Sometimes very little. Since prohibition came in many of them who had no liquor stocks turned to other stimulants.  The dealers in lllicit drugs found a growing clientele. With liquor, and to some extent drugs, there were some few who combined irregular relations in life. Motion picture people themselves admit that immoral and sometimes perverted persons are to be found in the industry, but they insist that the percentage of these is relatively small and that only their position in the public eye has made them at all conspicuous. It is not denied that some drug users are connected with the industry, but the producers take the position that these persons are being eliminated as opportunity offers.   Prejudice Against Film People. These various conditions have caused the property owners in Hollywood and in other sections to look on some motion picture people with disfavor when they seek to rent property. The owners have even advertised rental property with the phrase, "no movies wanted," and in many instances leases are made with the provision that all damage done by the tenant shall be repaired. There are, however, scores and hundreds of motion picture people who live lives in no way dissimilar to those  of other American householders, they go to the studios, do their work, return to normal homes and spend their evenings at theaters, at home, at clubs or in ordinary pursuits. Many of them have purchased handsome homes: many of them saw war service; many of them were-and areholders of liberty bonds and other investments. Some of them are regular church attendants and some of them are church officials. The industry numbers in its ranks all sorts of people, with all sorts of training and education; in the same set it is possible to see a noted actor   -director with a collegebred scenario writer at his elbow, directing a scene in which the leading woman may be one who fought her way up from an old-time burlesque choras while her leading man may have stepped from a bank or even a pulpit almost directly to a star's position, because of some charm of feature or superiority of physique. A violinist may kneel at one side, playing said music to help the star to tears, while a short -sleeved mechanic with drooping cigarette and protrading jaws stands by his light switehes. Everybody has heard the query, "Whats the matter with the movies," and observers in Los Angeles thinkthey know the answer. In their beief the trouble with the motion-picsure industry is the presence within it of a relatively small proportion of people whose senses were beclouded by sudden prosperity: the back of deand on the part of the producers for a standard of morality to be observed by their employes: the lack of thrift and the presence of extravagance, and the fact that the character has not been demanded by either producers or public as an element of success.
1922-02-11	Why Were Mabel Normand's Letters Put Into a Boot!'--Headline in the Taylor case. We give up. Why WERE Mabel Normand's letters put into a boot? Because maybe they were foot notes!
1922-02-11	Walter Underwood frequently had recourse to certain little 'pills' to quiet his shaking nerves while employed as an assistant cashier at the Pacific Electric Railway ticket office. This was made known by friends and co-workers of Underwood yesterday.
1922-02-11	There is no secret about any phase of my relations with Mr. Taylor. My letters to him--I would gladly set them before the world if the authorities care to do that. I have nothing to conceal. 'I knew Mr. Taylor had letters of mine. Once several weeks before he was murdered I saw them in a drawer of his desk. I remonstrated with him. `Why do you save my letters, Billy? I asked. There's nothing in them.' He merely smiled in answer. 'I have been charged with trying to recover those letters; with trying to conceal them. That is silly. If those letters are printed you will see that they are most of them casual; they express the jesting spirit that characterized our relations. We teased each other and made fun of each other a great deal. We did that continually on the night he was murdered, when I dropped in for a few minutes to see him.' As for the letters, she said, he would write her: 'Dear Mabel: I know you're an awfully busy woman and haven't much time to grant a poor duffer like me, but--how about dinner together next Wednesday and then the Orpheum? 'Yours always, 'Billy.' And on one occasion she said she answered: 'Dear Desperate Desmond: 'Sorry I cannot dine with you tomorrow. But I have a previous engagement with a Hindoo Prince. Some other time.' 'Then,' she said, 'I would sign the letter with a little sketch of myself, or by drawing a `daffodil.' You know the daffodils, those funny little comic figures.' 'Or he would write to me about books. I just want to show you some of the books he gave me.'
1922-02-11	A man working in Hollywood who requested his name not be mentioned in connection with the matter, stated to an Examiner reporter yesterday that on Tuesday afternoon, January 31, about 3 o'clock he was walking down Hollywood boulevard between Gower and Vine streets and that a man who tallies with the description of the one seen by Mrs. MacLean at the Taylor house on the night of the murder stopped him and inquired the way to the Lasky studio. 'The man seemed to want to talk to some one,' said the person giving this piece of news, 'and while we were engaged in conversation he asked me if I knew William D. Taylor. He said Taylor was a director at Lasky's. I told him I had never heard of the man and he expressed surprise and said he was very well known. The man said he wrote scenarios and poetry and he had a whole bunch of papers in his hand which he wanted to read to me, but poetry not being in my line I told him I was in a hurry. 'The man was short and heavy set. He wore dark brown clothes and a soft hat of the same color. He had on very heavy shoes, sort of brogans, and he looked about 25 years old. As he walked away I noticed he was bow-legged. He had a round, full face and looked to be about five feet nine inches in height. 'The man also asked about a car to town and said he believed he would take the next one, and then changed his mind, and acted, I thought, in a peculiar manner. I did not think of telling this until I read of Mr. Taylor's murder and later read the description of the man in the paper.'
1922-02-11	Mabel Normand sat in her bungalow court apartment, 3089 West Seventh street, yesterday afternoon and for two hours went over in detail the story of her friendship for Taylor, of her last visit to his house on the night of the murder, and of the famous 'Blessed Baby' letters which Miss Normand and Taylor wrote to each other. She discussed the general tone of the letters and recited a number of them in detail from memory. She went over the conversation she had had with Taylor a few moments before he was murdered, giving every sentence, she declared, that had passed between them. Miss Normand rose from a sick bed to grant the interview. For two days she has been on the verge of collapse. She talked to an Examiner reporter, nevertheless, against the advice of her business manager who feared for her physical condition. 'You'll not see the Mabel Normand you know on the screen,' said her manager, MacArthur, while we were waiting for her to appear. 'This terrible case has played havoc with her nerves.' The film star appeared in negligee, her hair down her back in school girl braids. Her face was pale and her voice trembled with emotion when she mentioned Taylor. 'I will talk freely to you. I will tell you everything I know about this terrible case,' she said in starting. 'And I ask only one thing in return. Print truthfully what I say. So much that is untrue has been printed about me. 'There is no secret about any phase of my relations with Mr. Taylor. My letters to him--I would gladly set them before the world if the authorities care to do that. I have nothing to conceal. 'I knew Mr. Taylor had letters of mine. Once several weeks before he was murdered I saw them in a drawer of his desk. I remonstrated with him. 'Why do you save my letters, Billy?' I asked. 'There's nothing in them.' He merely smiled in answer. 'I have been charged with trying to recover those letters; with trying to conceal them. That is silly. If those letters are printed you will see that they are most of them casual; they express the jesting spirit that characterized our relations. We teased each other and made fun of each a great deal. We did that continually on the night he was murdered, when I dropped in for a few minutes to see him' As for the letters, she said, he would write her: 'Dear Mabel: I know you're an awfully busy woman and haven't much time to grant to a poor duffer like me, but--how about dinner together next Wednesday and then the Orpheum' Yours always, 'Billy.' And on one occasion she said she answered: 'Dear Desperate Desmond: Sorry I cannot dine with you tomorrow. But I have a previous engagement with a Hindoo Prince. Some other time.' 'Then,' she said, 'I would sign the letter with a little sketch of myself, or by drawing a 'daffodil.' You know the daffodils, those funny little comic figures. 'Or he would write to me about books. I just want to show you some of the books he gave me.' Miss Normand rose and picked up a costly illustrated volume descriptive of the Russian Ballet. Then another large book describing dress throughout the ages. 'I should like to deny a number of things that have been charged against me,' said Miss Normand. 'First that I had told some one that I expected to marry Mr. Taylor. I never said that. Secondly, that I was with him on New Year's Eve at the Ambassador Hotel and that we quarreled afterward. 'On New Year's Even I was at the Alexandria hotel with Mr. and Mrs. Mahlon Hamilton. I did not see Mr. Taylor that night.' 'Did you quarrel with him on any other night after returning from a party or from dinner? And did he return any jewels to you?' 'I never quarreled with him. And he did not return any jewelry to me. 'Then there's the story of the night dress found in Mr. Taylor's apartment. It is cruel for any one to insinuate that it belonged to me. The initials, which I understand were found on it, refute that. The night of Mr. Taylor's death was the only time I was ever alone with him in his house. 'It has been said that check stubs found on Mr. Taylor's desk and the fact that he had drawn some money from the bank just before he was killed would indicate that perhaps someone was trying to blackmail him. I don't believe it. He had his check book out that night and was going over his checks for one reason only. 'Ever since Sands, his former butler, had forged his name Mr. Taylor had examined every check that came in carefully. He told me that he could hardly tell Sands' forgeries from his own signatures, and he was afraid that the swindling was going on all along. 'On the night of the murder, contrary to what has been said, he was in excellent spirits. During the time that I was with him I heard no sound that would indicate that any one was hiding in the house, anyone who might have stepped out and killed him after I left. But I will go back to the first part of that story of our last evening and give it to you all in detail. 'In the afternoon I went to a jewelry store to have initials placed on a vanity bag of mine. Then I went to the bank to deposit some checks. I'm rather careless about money and sometimes I let my checks accumulate--don't deposit them each week. It was so in this case. 'At the bank I phoned home to my maid, who told me that Mr. Taylor had called up. She said he mentioned having a book for me. I left the bank, bought 50 cents worth of peanuts from a man on the corner, several magazines and stepped into my limousine. 'I then directed William, my chauffeur, to drive to Mr. Taylor's home. I arrived, went up on the porch, and the door was opened by Mr. Taylor's valet, Henry Peavey. I saw Mr. Taylor inside talking on the phone, and when Henry asked me to step in, I refrained because I didn't want to eavesdrop on his conversation. 'Then Henry went inside, and told Mr. Taylor I was there. At once he said good-by, hung up the phone and came forward to greet me. ''I know why you're here,' he said. 'You haven't come to see me at all; you've just come after that book!' 'The book was 'Rosmundy,' [sic] by Ethel M. Dell. It was not a copy of one of Freud's works, as has been said. I read Freud and Nietzche long before I met Mr. Taylor. 'For some time Mr. Taylor and I 'spoofed' each other in our usual way, while Henry worked about the back part of the house. I looked about and said, 'This place has changed since I saw it last. I see you have both a piano and a Victrola now. My, you're getting altogether too rich.' 'Then we discussed books. We discussed 'Three Soldiers,' a book by that Chicago newspaper man, John Dos Passos. He had read it only recently and was much interested. And several other new books came into the discussion. 'When Henry Peavey entered I stared at him in amusement. I stared at his curious attire. He wore green golf stockings, yellow knickers and a dark coat. He left by the front door, smiling broadly and saying good night to me and Mr. Taylor. The way he said it--he's a funny colored boy with lots of mannerisms--made me smile. 'When Henry had gone I said, 'Why don't you get him a set of golf sticks? Then he'd be all set up.' 'Mr. Taylor's face grew serious then and he discussed Henry at some length, telling me how Henry had been arrested a short time before and how he had gone down to see the judge about the vagrancy charge. And how he had put up a bond of $200 to secure Henry's release. 'Then the talk turned on dinner and Mr. Taylor tried to persuade me to stay, saying that he had my favorite dessert--rice pudding. But I declined, for I had to work the next morning and it is my custom to retire early whenever I have work ahead. 'So we started for the door. As we stepped out on the porch and walked down the pathway toward me car, he put his arm about me. At the car he saw the magazines I had bought. One magazine was the Police Gazette and he started to tease me about it. I told him that I had bought it with a number of other illustrated magazines simply to look over the pictures. 'His parting remark was about calling me up an hour later concerning the book he had given me. He was curious to know whether I would like it. 'He waved good-by and I saw him start back toward the house. The next morning Edna Purviance called up and told me that he was dead. 'And that is all that I know. That is all I can tell District Attorney Woolwine or any other of the authorities if they call me before them.'
1922-02-11	...Emerging at 11:30 last night from District Attorney Woolwine's inner office at the close of a four-hours' interrogation of Mabel Normand, Detective Sergeants Cato, Murphy, Cahill and Winn brought with him a cap which they said may prove to be that of the man seen near the home of William D. Taylor by Mrs. Douglas MacLean. This cap, regarded by the detectives as important enough to be taken by them into the conference with Miss Normand, was worn by a man arrested in the afternoon on East Fourth street by Detectives Roberts and Lloyd. He gave the name of Walter Thiele and is held at the city jail on suspicion of a burglary committed the night of the Taylor murder and for carrying a revolver. On the visor of the cap is a bloodstain. The cap itself is khaki color, with distinct seams that might cause it to be mistaken for plaid at night... Miss Normand, after the questioning, talked to reporters for a few minutes. 'I feel so relieved now that I have told my story--everything--to the District Attorney. I know by the expression on Mr. Woolwine's face and his kindly smile as I left that he has placed me absolutely in 'the clear.' 'I told him everything from the time I entered Mr. Taylor's apartment to get the book he was to lend me until the moment I left him at the curb and waved good-bye. He has heard by story and he smiled convincingly at its conclusion.' As she walked down the corridor, garbed in an attractive dark red suit of the latest pattern her step was light and her manner confident and cheerful. 'I'm so tired, so very tired,' the film star said to her chauffeur as she and her companions stepped into her limousine. 'Please drive us back to the house so I can get some rest after this ordeal.' 'Just tell them I know the district attorney has placed me in 'the clear,'' she called over her shoulder to a newspaperman who pressed her for an interview. 'Tell them I have offered to be the first one to help in tracing down this fiendish assassin and that I hope he is caught and punished.' And as the automobile of Mabel Normand sped on the district attorney had this to say: 'I believe that little girl has told me everything she knows about this case and she's giving us every bit of aid she can.' This followed a day during which Miss Normand's physicians had declared that she was not equal to the strain of an official interrogation. Then Woolwine himself had a telephone conversation with Miss Normand shortly before 7 o'clock. Anxious to avoid the crowd that would be attracted by a daytime visit to the district attorney's office, the film actress decided that she was strong enough to brave the ordeal and promised to come to the Hall of Records at once. 'Even after talking to all the people about this Taylor case, I have been unable to gather one bit of evidence that would produce a clew,' declared Woolwine at midnight, after the conference. 'Miss Normand talked freely and for a long while we discussed the case informally. She is a very bright girl and seemed perfectly willing to help in running down the person who killed Taylor. She says she is as much interested in solving the murder as we are. 'There was sincerity in her tone when she made her statement in the presence of a shorthand expert. 'Of all the baffling murders we have had in recent years, this is the most puzzling I have encountered in my career. 'That Elwell murder in New York, has many characteristics of this one. We haven't found one clew yet that will assist in tracing the murder. 'Sands? Of course, I want to talk to him. 'All the persons questioned so far have not given a clew--none whatever! 'I suspect no one yet; have eliminated none.'... To a question as to whether he had obtained from Miss Normand information apparently related to the murder itself which had not been printed, Woolwine answered: 'We have talked of many apparently irrelevant things not published in the newspapers, but up to this time I have gotten nothing not published that pertains directly to the murder.'... McArthur, the manager, told reporters that Miss Normand had been receiving about a hundred letters a day since the death of Taylor. Most of them were from friends and admirers, expressing their deepest sympathy, but a few each day were abusive or from cranks.'... 'Yes, the man wore a plaid cap and a muffler.' A woman other than Mrs. Douglas MacLean saw the mystery man in the William D. Taylor case, it developed yesterday--saw him just before the murder while watching the film director and Mabel Normand. This woman, a nurse, was walking south on Alvarado street about 7:30 o'clock on the evening of February 1. She recognized Mabel Normand from her pictures. She did not know Taylor, but has since satisfied herself that he was the man in this sidewalk conversation. She passed them. A few feet farther on she saw a man standing behind a clump of brush. The man was not more than thirty feet from the couple, and appeared to be watching them intently. 'How was he dressed?' asked the police detective of this newest and, until yesterday, revealed witness. 'I remember distinctly the plaid cap and the muffler,' she said. 'Would you be able to recognize him should you see him again?' 'I would.' This testimony regarded as more intimate than any yet issuing from the sterile ground of facts in the case, has not been vouchsafed by this woman heretofore because, as she excused herself, she 'did not know it was important.' Nevertheless it is considered vital in this, that it practically dismisses from consideration the idea that the murderer--if this man of the muffler were he--entered the apartment while Taylor and Miss Normand were in conversation. Hence, upon the basis of this new story the structural material of the crime must be rearranged and the murderer, in the revised version, is discovered entering after Miss Normand left... The District Attorney called no witnesses yesterday. In the morning he drove out to the apartment occupied by Taylor at 404-B South Alvarado street, accompanied by E. C. Jessurun, the owner; W. C. Doran, Chief Deputy District Attorney, and Walter Fischer, his chauffeur. Mr. Jessurun was the first person to enter the house after the discovery of the body by Henry Peavey, Taylor's colored valet. In order to have a picture of that setting, with the fidelity of detail maintained, the District Attorney secured from Mr. Jessurun a description of the scene as he had observed it. Jessurun placed Fischer on his back on the floor, with feet towards the front door, with the corner of the rug there turned back under one foot. The landlord straightened the chauffeur's arms by his sides, but he spread his legs slightly apart, as they had found Taylor lying. The chair in which Taylor sat as he talked to Miss Normand, Jessurun placed over one leg, with its two front legs between Fischer's and its back towards the wall. 'That is the way the body lay, just like that,' said the landlord... In a second statement the District Attorney observed that 'the investigation has been proceeding as well as might be expected, considering the fact that more than a week has elapsed since the commission of the crime.' 'Does the evidence point to Sands or does it eliminate him?' he was asked. 'It does not point to any one,' he replied. 'I have not gone far enough to intelligently conclude that this person or that person might have done it.' The District Attorney's attention was directed to a powerful motion picture producer and magnate who, it is well known, was in love with one of the actresses frequently mentioned in the investigation. It developed that many persons, even men in the police department, have been wondering why this man has never been questioned. It appears that for several days he has refused himself to nearly all visitors and has placed officers in his home to guard himself against intruders. This man is being considered as one who, on account of his very close relationship with the actress in question, might be able to give valuable information. A renewed search of safety deposit boxes of banks of the city was undertaken yesterday on the supposition that Taylor left a will, an intimation to this effect coming from his daughter, Ethel Daisy Tanner. If there is such a secret box it is also expected that it will yield up documents, letters or other matter which may help to clear up Taylor's past and possibly furnish facts tending to make clear the motive. Among Taylor's keys are a number which fit no locks in his house. One of them, according to the officers, is similar to those issued for safety deposit boxes... The theory that Taylor was murdered by a blackmailer was somewhat discounted yesterday when it was learned that he had been bartering with a salesman for diamonds upon which a price of $3000 had been set. The director, it is said, decided not to buy the jewels. It was this negotiation, it is assumed, which accounted for the withdrawal of $2500 by Taylor on January 31 and the redepositing of this sum on February 1. In other words, he withdrew the money to be paid to the salesman and put it back when the deal fell through... Among those scheduled for early interrogation are two chauffeurs--Miss Normand's and Taylor's. The latter, Ed Fowler, knew Sands and his statement is desired for any light it may throw upon the missing ex-secretary of the murdered man...
1922-02-11	...Dramatic in the extreme was the scene enacted today at the Taylor bungalow. Fischer, Woolwine's chauffeur, lay prone upon the floor, impersonating in death the murdered film director as he lay when found by Peavey, his Negro valet. Jessurun had been one of the first to arrive upon the scene when the murder was discovered on the morning of February 2. He saw to it today that the position of the chauffeur's body corresponded in every detail to that which had been Taylor's, and that all of the furniture was placed exactly as it had been found. Woolwine, after making the closest inspection of the premises, gave official utterance, for the first time, to the theory that the murderer, man or woman, was concealed in the bungalow at the time that Mabel Normand and Taylor were engaged in conversation. He or she may have been upstairs in the bedroom, have overheard the talk, and, upon Taylor's return from the curb, whither he had escorted Mabel Normand to her waiting car, have shot him down. This theory, untenable if the public statements made by Peavey are correct, to the effect that he was there and knew that no one else could have entered without his knowledge, gave rise at once to the belief that information of a different nature had been wrung from the Negro when he was quizzed yesterday by Woolwine. The District Attorney, when pressed upon this point, declined to make public the substance of Peavey's statement taken before him and the detectives, but reiterated his previous assertion that it contained 'nothing new.'...
1922-02-11	...Meanwhile the police were searching for L. D. Dailey, alleged roommate of Walter Thiele at 333 East Fourth street, to question him concerning the slaying. Dailey, the police assert, is the owner of a blood- stained cap found in Thiele's room. The alleged connection of the two men with the case is being closely guarded by the police. Thiele was arrested early this morning by detectives from central police station. He is accused of committing a burglary on the night the murder occurred and is being held in the city jail on that charge. Back of it all, however, the police intimate, is the theory that the man has information in his possession which would prove of value to the probe of the mystery. He is scheduled to appear first before Capt. David L. Adams of the police detective bureau, before deputies in the sheriff's office and finally before District Attorney Thomas Lee Woolwine. Questioned at police headquarters early today, Thiele said that he had come to Los Angeles about three months ago from Placerville, Cal. He was planning to return to his home when he was arrested. Relative to the blood-stained cap in his possession he said that the article belonged to Dailey, a man that he described as a 'hasher out of work.' He became acquainted with the man about three weeks ago, he stated, and had offered him lodging in his own room...
1922-02-11	...Rumors that Miss Normand went to the Taylor home to force Taylor to return her letters were branded as 'vicious falsehoods' today by Charles Eyton, general manager of the Famous Players-Lasky corporation. 'These stories will be retracted or I'll know the reason why,' Eyton said. 'Miss Normand went to Taylor's home that night to get a book. She didn't try to get her letters until after the murder had been committed. I was in his home after the inquest with the public administrator when she called and asked for them. 'There is a tendency on the part of certain interests to dish dirt about a man who cannot now defend himself against scandalous insinuations. They shall retract this particular statement or I'll know the reason why.'
1922-02-11	Mrs. J. M. Berger, income tax specialist, talked about William Desmond Taylor who had called at her office just a few hours before he was slain in his bachelor apartments. 'He was here in the afternoon to attend some business,' she explained. 'I do not think there is a woman in the case. 'Why--' her white hand pointed to a large picture of Mary Miles Minter that was hanging on the wall of her room. 'Of course little Mary loved Mr. Taylor--who didn't? We all loved him. 'Of course, Mary Miles Minter is only a child. 'Her letters, published, are purely those of a very young girl, and as Mr. Taylor said, 'a child.' 'I had asked him how she was on that day he called here and he said 'she has a touch of tonsillitis and temperament.' '
1922-02-11	An assassin hired by a motion picture leader, member of an alleged 'dope ring,' killed William Desmond Taylor, in the opinion of Ruth Wing Taylor, wife of Ted Taylor, the dead director's publicity agent. Psychics have aided her in reaching her theory, Mrs. Taylor, who before her marriage was a screen actress, said. She explained: 'Since Mr. Taylor was killed, two persons of the highest standing in the study of the occult have come to me, saying that they believe I held the key to the murder. 'Things have come to me, one by one, that have convinced me that Mr. Taylor was slain by a hired assassin, paid by a certain noted picture leader, whose money, I believe, has been able to purchase a quieting of suspicion and immunity from investigation. 'It is true the authorities have conducted a superficial investigation into his movements, but this psychic power within me tells me that he is the one responsible. The only woman with whom he has been really in love for several years was friendly toward Taylor and I believe he conceived this plan to rid himself of Taylor, whom he believed his rival for the woman's affections but who actually was interested in her only from a more or less intellectual standpoint.'
1922-02-11	This is my own story of just what happened on the night of my last visit to William D. Taylor, the evening of February 1. In response to a telephone call left by Mr. Taylor at my home during the afternoon of the day he was killed I stopped at his house between 7 and 7:15 in the evening. The purpose of my call was to pick up a book which Mr. Taylor had purchased for me that afternoon, knowing particularly that I wanted it. He had already sent one book to my home but had requested me to stop for this one, which I assumed he had purchased later. Upon my arrival I was let in by Henry Peavey, Taylor's valet, who informed me Mr. Taylor was conversing with someone over the phone. In a few moments after my arrival Mr. Taylor said good-bye to the party with whom he was conversing and left the telephone. He greeted me. He had just finished dinner and his man had cleared away the table but he asked me if I would not let him have something prepared for me or go out to dinner with him later. I declined, explaining that I was tired and that I had an early studio call to make the next morning. I said that I intended to go home early, have dinner and go to bed. For 25 minutes Mr. Taylor and I sat discussing various books and photoplays. About 20 minutes to eight, I prepared to start for home. Mr. Taylor walked with me to where my car was parked at the curbing. There was a copy of the 'Police Gazette' in the car which he noticed. He chided me for having it in my possession, remarking that Freud, Haeckel and Nietzsche were hardly compatible with such literature. After an exchange of repartee for a few minutes, I finally bade him good night and directed by chauffeur to drive me home. Before I left, Mr. Taylor promised to phone me at my home within one hour. He never did. As William (my chauffeur) pulled away from the curb I looked back and saw Mr. Taylor standing there, gazing after me. I waved my hand. That was the last time I ever saw Mr. Taylor alive. Within a few minutes I was at my home. I retired, having dinner served to me in bed about 8:15. The first knowledge I had of Mr. Taylor's death was when Edna Purviance phoned me the following morning about 7:30. She told me that Mr. Taylor's valet had been seen rushing from Mr. Taylor's home, screaming that his master was dead. I have no idea who killed Mr. Taylor or what was the reason for his death. I would only be too proud to announce the fact had I been engaged to Mr. Taylor, but such a statement would not be true. I held Mr. Taylor in highest esteem, regarding him as a very learned, cultured gentleman, with whom any woman might be proud to associate. Mr. Taylor and I had much in common and during the long period of our friendship I had made a study of the French language and philosophy in which I had been interested for some time. I am also interested in these things now. So far as revealing the contents of any letters written by Mr. Taylor to me or by me to Mr. Taylor is concerned I have no reason to fear any consequences which might result from such disclosures except the natural embarrassment of having personal correspondence revealed to the public gaze.
1922-02-11	Find Sands!' This laconic suggestion of Mrs. J. M. Berger, income tax specialist, is the solution of the William Desmond Taylor murder mystery. 'No doubt of it in my mind,' said Mrs. Berger, a young business woman, with a wealth of bronze hair, and brown eyes. 'Edward F. Sands is the man. I am sure.' Mrs. Berger opened her mail as she talked about the motion picture director who had called at her office in the H. W. Hellman building just a few hours before he was slain in his bachelor apartments. 'He was here in the afternoon to attend some business,' she explained. 'I help not only motion picture folks but many prominent business men on their income tax returns.' 'Had he expressed a fear of Sands?' Mrs. Berger was asked. 'Yes, he had talked about his former valet-secretary's forging his name, and about the 'Alias Jimmy Valentine' note that he had received. 'I did not know Mr. Taylor intimately--only in a business way, but I knew some of the most intimate details of his business which I have told to the district attorney in an effort to clear up the mystery. 'I swooned at the inquest. I am sorry I gazed at his body which was the color of his khaki suit. 'I do not think there is a woman in the case. 'Why--' her white hand pointed to a large picture of Mary Miles Minter that was hanging on the wall of her room. 'Of course little Mary loved Mr. Taylor--who didn't? We all loved him. He was one of God's gentlemen, and he was far above the average in politeness and intelligence, from what I saw of him. 'I had spent many, many hours with Mr. Taylor, but I had never heard of an enemy, except Sands. If the police find him surely, if he cannot explain his whereabouts on that night, he should be questioned carefully. 'Now, little Miss Mabel Normand is a fine girl. Of course my dealings with her have been purely business, but I think from what I have seen that Miss Normand was very worth while. Of course, Mary Miles Minter is only a child. 'Her letters, published, are purely those of a very young girl, and as Mr. Taylor said, 'a child.' 'I had asked him how she was on that day he called here and he said 'she has a touch of tonsillitis and temperament,' and that was all there was to it. 'I cannot believe a woman had anything to do with it. As to his changing his name--well, Billy Taylor may have had a reason, I do not know. If he had had an unfortunate experience in his life, perhaps he wanted to forget it. 'I only know that he was a perfect gentleman, and that I hope the police never rest until they apprehend the assassin who robbed the world of such a fine man.'
1922-02-11	A high-bred Airedale dog bounded into the Taylor mystery Saturday and started investigation along a new line which may result in locating the murderer. The dog was either given away or sold by Edward F. Sands shortly before he left the employ of Taylor. Men intimately acquainted with Sands' peculiarities say that he was very fond of this animal and that he would never have parted with it except to some one in whom he had implicit confidence. If the present owner can be found considerable light will be thrown on Sands' recent activities, it is believed. Interesting theories regarding Sands were advanced Saturday by neighbors who had observed his conduct while he was in the motion picture director's employ. One of these neighbors, a woman of high intelligence, announced she had reached the conclusion that Sands is not the guilty person. 'He appeared to me,' she said, 'to be a big healthy animal, lazy, selfish and mindful first of his personal comfort. I gain this impression not only from what I have heard, but from what I have observed of the man as he passed our home daily. Men of the type Sands apparently was do not murder --murder would mean mental discomfort and these men think first of their own well being.' This woman was greatly impressed by the theory that blackmailers had been at work. She was of the opinion that letters that had fallen into the hands of professional blackmailers may be an explanation of the mystery...
1922-02-11	A man believed by the police to be a material witness in the Taylor murder case was arrested here last night. He was charged with a felony pending further investigation into his story. Armed with a search warrant, two detectives made a hurried trip early this morning, following an absence for more than two hours from the conference in the District Attorney's office. Their mission followed the arrest and no indication of their plans was given. Mabel Normand, film-star friend of William Desmond Taylor, the slain motion-picture director whose murder more than a week ago continues to baffle the police, last night was questioned for hours in the District Attorney's office. She was the second woman star of considerable magnitude in filmdom to be questioned, the first being Mary Miles Minter. Miss Normand, the last friend, it is believed, who saw Mr. Taylor alive, was closeted with Dist.-Atty. Woolwine, Chief Deputy Doran and police detectives from 8:15 p.m. until midnight. She was driven to the office by her chauffeur, William Davis, an important witness in the case whose statements thus far have corroborated Miss Normand' story that Mr. Taylor accompanied her to her automobile when she left him a few minutes before he was shot through the back in his bachelor apartments. Mr. Davis was questioned after Miss Normand. 'I have seldom seen a case so devoid of workable or substantial clews as is this one,' Mr. Woolwine stated at the close of the four-hour session. Little additional information that had not previously been told to officers and also in the columns of The Times was gleaned from the statement last night of Miss Normand. Her story has been told and retold by her and in all essential points there was no variation during the long questioning. She said she went to Mr. Taylor's apartments to get a book at his request. She retold the substance of their conversation. Then she left about 7:45 p.m. He took her to her automobile, talked for a few minutes, waved good-by and turned toward his home as she left in her automobile. It was a very few moments after this he was shot. After her long statement she left Mr. Woolwine's office, apparently well at ease, her lips a deep crimson, giving more than a mere suspicion of a camera-proof make-up. She obligingly permitted cameramen to 'flash' the scene as she walked down the corridor with Messers. Woolwine and Doran at her side. She laughed frequently--all the party seemed in good spirits. During the long conference with Miss Normand, the much-discussed letters written to Mr. Taylor by her and not found in the house until a few days after the murder, were taken into the room where she was making a statement. Mr. Doran took them from his office at another end of the hall. He remained in the room where Miss Normand was about thirty minutes and then Mr. Doran, with the packet of letters in his pocket, walked again to his office. On the return trip his pocket was empty. Despite this definite indication that Mr. Woolwine will retain possession of the letters for the time being at least, there is nothing in them, he stated, that seems to throw light on the crime or motive behind the slaying. Just before Miss Normand's questioning was concluded, Mr. Woolwine came out of the room and said that in his opinion Miss Normand was very anxious to assist in every way to find the slayer. 'I may be mistaken,' he said, 'but I now have the opinion she is anxious to assist us in every way.' Flanked on both sides and with a rear and front guard of police detectives, Miss Normand displayed a remarkable shyness for cameramen when she entered the Hall of Records at 7:55 o'clock last night. She was also accompanied by A. MacArthur, her personal representative, and a friend, who gave her name as Miss Burns. When the members of the party got to the eleventh floor, where Mr. Woolwine's office is situated, no one was there to receive them. So Miss Normand, one of the queens of the screen, sat in one of the straight-backed, uncomfortable chairs in the hallway, waiting twenty minutes for her interrogators to appear. During that wait she made a statement for the press... During the waiting in the hall Miss Normand, who was attired in a gray velour hat, fur neck piece, red coat, gray hose and black Oxfords, joked with the officers. She was declared to have left a sick-bed to accommodate the officials making the murder inquiry. Late in the day it was reported she had a severe collapse, but Mr. MacArthur stated she merely was ill and had not actually collapsed. Mr. Woolwine, accompanied by Mr. Doran and Ben Smith, official shorthand reporter, came to the office twenty minutes after Miss Normand. Mr. Woolwine walked toward her party. 'Good evening, Miss Normand,' he said. 'How are you feeling tonight?' 'I haven't been feeling very well today,' she replied. They all went into Mr. Woolwine's office, but Miss Normand's two companions remained in the anteroom during the taking of her statement. About half an hour later, Detective Sergeants Cato and Cahill left the building on an unexplained mission, remaining away for several hours. Mr. Woolwine later said this trip was not the outgrowth of new information from Miss Normand and that nothing definite was developed. Mr. Davis, the chauffeur, remained downstairs during the questioning of his employer. Just an hour after the conference started, Mr. Doran made the trips referred to above with the Normand letters. When he returned them to his office, Mr. Woolwine followed him out of the room where Miss Normand was being questioned, and held a brief consultation with him. Earlier in the day, six witnesses were examined by the officers on the case. One of them is a nurse who declared she saw a man wearing a cap and a muffler who was watching Miss Normand and Mr. Taylor as the couple were standing near Miss Normand's machine. The strange man, whose description is said to coincide with that of the man seen leaving Mr. Taylor's apartments after the shot was heard, was standing in the shadow of some brush, the woman said. Other witnesses whose statements were taken during the day were not named by the investigators, nor was the nature of their testimony learned. In addition to the Normand letters received at the District Attorney's office a few days ago, Mr. Woolwine yesterday obtained possession of other letters taken from the home of persons not officially permitted to remove them. Among these were letters from Mary Miles Minter and many canceled checks and other personal property. Mr. Woolwine, late in the day, said he had personally examined all this material and had been unable to find anything which in itself aided in solving the mystery of who shot Mr. Taylor and why. Detective Sergeant King, working out of the District Attorney's office, was reported at his home to be seriously ill and not able to continue his work investigating the case. Charles A. Jones, retired Chief of Police and formerly an investigator aiding Mr. Woolwine, was in conference a long time during the afternoon with Mr. Woolwine and the others who are trying to find the slayer. And the conclusion of a 'bonehead conference,' as he termed a meeting in the afternoon with police detectives, Dist.-Atty. Woolwine said that no clews had been found which would directly lead to a solution of the mystery. In addition to making a personal tour of the scene of the crime during the morning hours and to sitting in at several conferences, Dist.-Atty. Woolwine added several new elements to the murder mystery. He introduced late in the day a new and hitherto unmentioned witness into the case, whose identity was guarded with the utmost secrecy. The mystery witness, a man who thus far has failed to appear in any phase of the baffling investigation, was spirited into the District Attorney's office late in the afternoon. Earlier in the day Chief Deputy Dist.-Atty. Doran had hastily left the Hall of Records on a secret mission, accompanied by a shorthand reporter and Detective Sergeants Winn and Murphy. It was thought they were to visit Mabel Normand's apartment to get a shorthand statement from her. Several hours later Chief Deputy Dist.-Atty. Doran returned, bringing with him the unknown witness. The man was escorted into a room, the door was locked and he was questioned for an hour. The officials who heard his statement refused to reveal his identity or to relate what had occurred behind the locked door. An official conference was held late in the afternoon. Those present included Dist.-Atty. Woolwine, Chief Dep. Dist.-Atty. Doran and the detectives. Mr. Woolwine gave the session the name of 'bonehead conference,' he explained, because he had concluded that none of the investigators, including himself, had been able to reach any solution of the crime. He said that no person was under suspicion, despite the fact that several prominent film persons had been interviewed, that not even a motive has been established, that he has not been able to form a definite theory that might aid them in the investigation. Mr. Woolwine verified the report in The Times yesterday morning that Mary Miles Minter had made a statement for the District Attorney's office. The questioning, he stated, was conducted last Tuesday afternoon by Mr. Doran, who refused to divulge the nature of the written statement which a shorthand reporter took from Miss Minter. While Mr. Woolwine was considering what steps he should next take in his personal investigation, Capt. of Detectives Adams and Detective Sergeant Herman Cline made a hurried trip to San Diego to investigate the suicide of a man who at first was reported to answer the description of Edward F. Sands, former valet employed by Taylor and who is sought in connection with the crime. The suicide had registered under the name of James Martin at a San Diego hotel. Last Monday his body was found in his room. Also it was learned that he had a bank account of $260 in a Los Angeles bank. His description, Coroner Kelly reported, tallied with that of Sands. After viewing the body, Capt. Adams announced he was positive the man in the San Diego morgue was not Sands. He returned to Los Angeles last night...
1922-02-11	An official investigation is under way by the Motion-Picture Directors' Association, President David M. Hartford announced last evening, of a proposition reported to have been made to a prominent motion-picture actor here that he should drop out of sight under circumstances calculated to make it appear that he is the murderer of William Desmond Taylor. The extraordinary situation first became public at a largely attended meeting of the Motion-Picture Directors' Association at the Hollywood Women's clubhouse Thursday evening. A well-known director stated from the floor, according to others present, that the film actor, with whom he is associated, had been approached by two representatives of a local newspaper and the proposition made to him that he should, in effect, assume the guilt for Taylor's murder for the time being. The plan behind the proposal, according to the understanding, was that the star would get very usable 'publicity' and the newspaper 'sensational copy.' It all was to be arranged by the return of the actor after a proper period of time, and his exoneration by proper alibis. In the meantime the authorities could be seeking the real murderer of the director if they saw fit in face of the apparent guilt of the missing star. The actor refused the proposal with indignation, and nothing more came of the matter until it was brought out at the meeting Thursday night. Mr. Hartford, who is the newly elected head of the Directors' Association, said the matter had not been brought up officially, but he considered it of sufficient importance to began an inquiry yesterday.
1922-02-11	Mabel Normand, famous film star, before going into the office of Thomas Lee Woolwine, District Attorney, last night, to be questioned as to any clew she might be able to furnish to the identity of the slayer of William Desmond Taylor, motion-picture director, issued a statement through her manager that she could 'not offer any solution whatever' concerning the tragedy and denied that she was in love with Taylor, or had quarreled with him. 'No one will ever know how I regret the terrible tragedy. I have told truthfully everything I know and am very sorry, indeed. I cannot offer any solution whatever as to the motive which prompted the terrible deed. I have satisfied the Los Angeles authorities, both police and District Attorney's office, that I know nothing about the murder, and have offered my services or a statement at any time I may be called to help apprehend the assassin. 'The handkerchief and gown found in Mr. Taylor's apartment have been identified as other than mine. It has been established that I was not in love with Mr. Taylor; that he escorted me to my car that evening and chatted until I drove away, when we waved good-by to each other. 'Please tell the public that I knew absolutely nothing about this terrible happening and that Mr. Taylor and I did not quarrel.'
1922-02-11	I then directed William, my chauffeur, to drive to Mr. Taylor's home. I arrived, went up on the porch, and the door was opened by Mr. Taylor's valet, Henry Peavey. I saw Taylor inside talking on the phone, and when Henry asked me to step in, I refrained because I didn't want to eavesdrop on his conversation. 'Then Henry went inside and told Mr. Taylor I was there. At once he said good-by, hung up the phone and came forward to greet me.' 'I know why you're here,' he said. 'You haven't come to see me at all; you've just come after that book!' 'The book was `Rosmundy,' by Ethel M. Dell. It was not a copy of one of Freud's works as has been said. I read Freud and Nietzche long before I met Mr. Taylor. 'For some time Mr. Taylor and I spoofed each other in our usual way, while Henry worked about the back part of the house. I looked about and said, `This place has changed since I saw it last. I see you have both a piano and Victrola now. My, you're getting all together too rich.' 'Then we discussed books. We discussed `Three Soldiers,' a book that Chicago newspaper man, John Dos Passos. He had read it only recently and was much interested. And several other new books came into the discussion. 'When Henry Peavey entered I stared at him in amusement. I stared at his curious attire. He wore green golf stockings, yellow knickers and a dark coat. He left by the front door, smiling broadly and saying good night to me and Mr. Taylor. The way he said it--he's a funny colored boy with lots of mannerisms--made me smile. 'When Henry had gone I said, `Why don't you get him a set of golf sticks? Then he'd be all set up.' 'Mr. Taylor's face grew serious then and he discussed Henry at some length, telling me how Henry had been arrested a short time before and how he had gone down to see the judge about the vagrancy charge. And how he had put up a bond of $200 to secure Henry's release.
1922-02-11	Chicago Suburb Will Ask to Have Name Changed What's in a name? A lot, according to the citizens of Hollywood, Ill., a placid little suburb of Chicago. Since the Arbuckle and Taylor cases were revealed the tiny Illinois town doesn't feel so placid. While it boasts of a movie theater, the Illinois Hollywood is innocent of Japanese butlers, love bungalows, Chinese dope peddlers and screen ingenues whose faces register 'frozen horror.' Because of the notoriety of the movie colony, the residents of Chicago's suburb today announced they would have the name of their town changed.
1922-02-11	RE-ENACTS MURDER OF FILM DIRECTOR District Atiorney Goes to Taylor's Home to Determine. Circumstances." MISS NORMAND RECALLED Actress Who was the Last to See the Movie Director Alive is Again Examined. Special to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Cal., Feb. 11 .-A dramatic re-enactment of the murder of William Desmond Taylor, film director, was staged for District Attorney Woolwine today at the scene of the slaying. Woolwine's chauffeur was placed on the floor of the Taylor home in the exact position in which the slain man was found, and the circumstances surrounding the shooting were explained to the District Attorney. The re-enactment of the murder was carried out in the greatest details. After carefully inspecting the house, outside and inside Woolwine walked to the curb to the spot to which Taylor escorted Mabel Normand to her auto a few moments before his death. The front door of the house was left open. While Woolwine stood at the curb it was pointed out to him that the slayer might have entered the house through the open door while Taylor was talking to Miss Normand. Back in the house again, Woolwine studied the probable relative positions of the slayer and his victim. From the scene of the crime Woolwine drove to the Distriet Attorney's office, where he held a conference with his chief deputy, W. C. Doran, and the five police detectives working on the case. Before entering into the conference he announced that the investigation so far showed that the slayer may have been in the house while Taylor and Miss Normand were chatting, instead of entering when Taylor and the actress went to the automobile, He said that the slayer could have hidden in the house and overheard the conversation between Taylor and Miss Normand and committed the murder when Taylor returned alone." So far in our investigation we are un against a blank wall," the District Attorney said." Before we are through, however, we hope to obtain evidence which will put us on the trail of the murderer." Interviewed Miss Minter. Woolwine confirmed reports that Mary Miles Minter had made a complete statement to Chief Deputy District Attorney Doran."Miss Minter was questioned several days ago at the start of our investigation," Woolwine said." She appeared voluntarily and did not hesitate to answer every question. She told us everything we wanted to know from her, but her statement did not supply us with any evidence of particular value," Search for a safety deposit box said to have been rented by Taylor at a downtown bank in addition to the one opened by the police soon after his murder was made today by detectives. A friend of the slain director informed the District Attorney's office that Taylor had two deposit boxes. It is believed that the second may contain letters and other data of value in the investigation. Woolwine was notified today of the arrrest in Topeka, Man., of Walter R. Underwood on a charge of embezzling $1,000 from the Pacific Electric Railroad company in Los Angeles. Underwood was reported to have told the police that he knew Taylor and Edward F. Sands, Taylor's valet and secretary, who is being sought in connection with the murder. Underwood, according to Topeka dispatches, said he had attended numerous"parties" at Taylor's home, declaring he had a"suspicion" as to who killed Taylor and indicating that he might be able to aid the police in solving the murder, but not much credence was placed in the purported statements of Underwood by the Los Angeles detectives. Persons who knew Taylor well declared they never knew a man named Underwood or a man answering the description of the man arrested at Topeka. Miss Mabel Normand tonight called at the District Attorney's office in response to, a summons and repeated her story of her last visit to Taylor's home, Says Taylor Made a Will. Frank G. Schrenkeisen, New York attorney, representing Ethel Daisy DeaneTanner, daughter of the slain man, has notified Public Administrator Bryson that Taylor informed his daughter that he had made a will. A search for this will was ordered today. Additional light on the life of Sands as been furnished by George S. Brettner, who knew the former valet well. Mr. Brettner told detectives that he believed Sands was mentally deranged, as Sands had often declared that he would commit suicide when he became 35 years old, stating that there was not much use of living after one had reached that age. He declared also that Sands usually carried a .45-calibre revolver and that he was infatuated with a girl who frequented a local dance hall and whose name has already been given the police. A search for this girl has been made for several days, as detectives believe that she might be able to throw some light on his whereabouts. Brettner gave the detectives the name of a waiter who is employed in an Alvarado Street restaurant, who is said to be a perfect double for Sands. In fact, it is said that this waiter has been mistaken for the valet many times. Evidence definitely connecting Sands with the robbery at the moving picturedirector's home last December was obtained from Sacramento. Pawn tickets for some jeweiry placed in the keeping of the Zematsky Loan and Jewelry Xompany at Sacramento were sent to Los Angeles to the local office of the concern and the tickets were turned over to the police homicide squad. Sands's handwriting was said to have been identified on the tickets and he used the name"W. Dennis Tanner." Miss Normand Issues statement. LOA ANGELES, Feb.10. (Associated Press) Mabel Normand, motion picture actress, who was among the last persons to see William Desmond Taylor alive, arrived at the District Attorney's office at 8 o'clock tonight in response to a summons from that official. Miss Normand issued a statement late tonight through her manager in which she declared she could not offer any solution whatever for the slaying of Taylor. The statement follows:"No one will ever know how I regret the terrible tragedy. I have told truthfully everything I know and am very sorry indeed I cannot offer any solution whatever as to the motive which prompted the terrible deed. I have satisfied the Los Angeles authorities, both police and district attorney's office, that I know nothing about the murder and have offered my services or a statement at any time may be called to help apprehend the assassin."The handkerchief and gown found in Mr. Taylor's apartments have been identified as other than mine. It has been established that I was not in love with Mr. Taylor, that he escorted me to my car that evening and chatted until I drove away, when we waved goodbye to each other."Please tell the public that I know absolutely nothing about this terrible happening and that Mr. Taylor and I did not quarrel."
1922-02-11	A young New Yorker, whose father is a wealthy manufacturer, has been brought under suspicion because of his devotion to the same pretty actress. He has been hanging around Hollywood, and reports, now believed to have had their inception in his own love-sick brain, that he was engaged to the actress, have been circulated. He was questioned early in the police investigation and gave what appeared to be a satisfactory story of his whereabouts. Persons whose names he brought into the statement of his movements on the night in question have contradicted him, according to the investigators, and this has brought him under the shadow again.
1922-02-11	Feb. 10--...another Chicagoan, Mrs. John H. Borden, close friend of Mabel Normand, was rising to the latter's defense. She returned here a month ago after a five months' visit with Mabel Normand. 'Mabel is not in love and never was in love with Taylor,' she said. 'Bill Taylor was in love with her, very much so, but it was unrequited. She had been engaged to Mack Sennett, but that was an old affair and now they are merely good friends. Mabel did not know anything about the first Mrs. Taylor or the daughter. 'Mabel never mentioned Mary Miles Minter's name to me. If there had been an affair between Taylor and Miss Minter I believe Mabel would have told me. 'And as to those 'baby' letters, I read them to Mabel over the telephone when she was away. If she had been in love she would never have allowed me to do that. As far as Mabel Normand is concerned, I can say and know that she is not 'wild,' and that her work and her screen ambitions are too big in her life to let anything in the world interfere.'
1922-02-11	Cheer up, you old birds. Look at the kick murdered Film Director Taylor was getting out of life at the age of 50.
1922-02-11	Editor contemplates abandoning his Back to Nature Society and starting a Hollywood Movie Colony. Thinks he'll get more of a kick out of it--more nature.
1922-02-11	QUIZ MISS NORMAND  Movie Star at District Atto. ney's Office for Ouestioning.   DENIES LOVE FOR  Inquiry Into Hollywood Tragedy Conducted With greater Secrecy   Mary Miles Minter, It was Reveald Had been Interviewed at S-a Hour as Slain Director's Far.-Was Held-Scene of Discovery Body Reenacted, Chauffeur A-ing Role of the Dead Man.   (By the Associsted Press.) Los Angeles. Feb. 10 .-Mabel Nor mand, motion picture actress, who was among the last persons to see William Desmond Tayler alive, arived at the district attorneys office at eight o'clock tonight in response to a summons from that official. With Miss Normand was William Davis, her chauffeur, who drove the actress to the Taylor home the night the director was murdered and when previously, in statements to the po lice, corroborated her declaration that Taylor accompanied her to her auto mobile when she departed. She and Davis were there to questioned as to what information they might be able to give the authorities in solving the murder may tery. it was stated.   Court Stemographer Freseet. Ben Smith, official court stenographer, was summoned to Mr. Woowine 's office shortly after Miss Normand was taken before the district attorney. It was understood the  amination of the actress was proceding before Mr. Woolwine and M. Doran. Miss Normand later issued a statement tonight through her manager in which she declared she could " offer any solution whatever" for the slaying of Taylor. Miss Normand denied she was is love with Taylor or had quarre!" with him. The statement was issued just before Miss Normand went in the office of the district attorney to be questioned regarding any clue that might possibly be able to give in to search for Taylor 's slayer.   Text of statement. The statement follows: "No one will ever know how are I a great the terrible tragedy. I have told truthfully everything I know and am very sorry, indeed, I can not offer a solution whatever as to the motive which prompted the terrible deed. have satisfied the Los Angeles authorities, both police and district atorneys office, that I know nothing about the murder and have offered my services or a statement at any time is may be called to help apprehend the assassin. "The handkerchief and gown found in Mr. Taylor 's apartments have been identified as other than mine, It has a been established that I was not in love with Mr. Taylor that he escorted me to my care that evening and chatte, until I drove away, when we waved good-by to each other. "Please tell the public that I knew absolutely nothing about this terrible happening and that Mr. Taylor and I did not quarrel."   Investigation very Methodical. The investigation proceeded meodically today under the direction of the district attorney, but without any dvelopments in the way of evidence or at least without any discoveries that new evidence had been found. he The investigation today was shrowed with more secrecy than has aisted heretofore, Detectives and officers came and went, telephone buzzed, and there was an air of great activity. but little word of what ocurred was permitted to escape. Mary Miles Minter was the A.actress questioned, having been seccretly examined Tuesday by Wec wine, while Tayiors funeral was is progress, Woolwine said.   No one Yet Accused Miss Normand has held the leadinf role in the spectacular development of the investigation thus far, when the district attorney says has not produced one seintilla of evidence is connect any one with the murder. The death of Taylor and funeral affected Miss Normand more visibly than any other person within to. purview of friends and the public this culminating in her swooning in the church following the feners service Tuesday. She was brough into the church supported by is women. and accompanied by her ". rectors.   When the service began her brow quaked in spasmodic tremors continuously during the 30 or more minutes of the service and the two women had to support her in the seat, entwinit their arms about her, while the a rector called attention of one of the. to beads of perspiration upon  pale, trembling, open mouthed face When others left the church  insisted on being led to the casket and after a glimpse at the still view a" herein, she lost consciousness. Mass  le Mary Miles Minter, another s ss reported to have been in Iove with Taylor, was engaged in exion at the district attorreys -S.  le the funeral was being held. abel Normaad has been known " ion pictures for more than twer "is, first entering this field in Be ""I after previous experience as CONTINDED OR FOuRTH PACE.   QUIZ MISS NORMAND   CONTINUED FROM FIRST PAGE. chorus girl and model. Comedy, burlesque was her early experience, under direction of Mack Sennett, to whom she has been engaged and under whose direction she now is and has remained practically the whole of her career. For many years in the "slapstick comedy" she was a stage companion of Roscoe C. Arbuckle, Fred Mace and Ford Sterling. Continuance of the examination of witnesses today was delayed, District Attorney Woolwine said, owing to the fatigue of the examiners, who were occupied until late hours last night. Meanwhile, he said, investigators continued with undiminished energy their search for details. The scene of the discovery of Taylor's body was reenacted today by investigators under leadership of Disstrict Attorney Woolwine. The party went to the Taylor home and Mr. Woolwine's chauffeur was placed on the floor in the position in which Taylor's body was found. A thorough examination of the house was made for reference in any trial in connection with the murder, and diagrams were prepared.   Letters Empty of Clews. District Attorney Woolwine announced that the letters found in a boot in Taylor's house, reported to include those of Mabel Normand to Taylor, were examined by detectives, but had not been examined by his chief deputy nor himself. He said that he was unable to reveal the names of any writers of these letters, and indicated that little significance would be attached to them. A physician was called to the home of Mabel Normand today and when questioned afterward concerning reports that the actress was ill, asserted that she was "extremely nervous."
1922-02-11	Friend of Taylor, Arrested In Topeka, Blames Woman   Topeka. Kans., Feb. 10. Doubt that Walter S. Underwood, held in the Shawnee county jail here, is Edward F. Sands, wanted in connection with the murder of William Desmond Taylor, was expressed at noon today by Undersheriff O. W. Carlson, after further investigation. Underwood maintained he knew both Taylor and Sands, but declared he knew nothing of the murder. Underwood was taken off the train here on receipt of a message that he was wanted at Los Angeles on an embezzlement charge made by the Union Pacific Railway Company. The man admitted he had been employed by the company as cashier for eight months. Underwod corresponds to every mark of identification given in the description of Sands, even to slight scars on his cheeks and another on his left shoulder, according to the undersheriff. The facial scars, Un derwood asserted, were caused by mustard gas encountered in France while with the Canadian army in the war. His left arm is decorated with a tattoo mark of an anchor with the initials "W. C."   Says Woman Shot Taylor. "It was a woman who did it." Underwood said when questioned about the murder. "I know nothing about it but it was jealousy that caused it. Yes, I know Taylor. I have been at his house several times attending parties. Then he described these parties   which he declared were "wild ones" he wnien liquor and drugs were serv ed to the guests. He said he had seen both Mabel Normand and Mary Miles Minter at Taylor's house, but not at the same time. Underwood said he left Los Angeles about 10 o'clock the night of Wednesday, February 1. This was shortly after the hour fixed for the slaying of Taylor. He said he went to San Bernardino in a hired automobile. Among Underwood's effects was a receipt of a Los Angeles hotel showing he was a guest there from January 18 until January 30. There was also a pawn ticket for a revolver issued in Los Angeles dated January 30. Underwood's railroad ticket showed he left San Bernardino last Sunday night.
1922-02-11	Taylor came From Rich Old   Chicago, Feb, I .-William Desmond a in Taylor, also known as William Deane-( Tanner, never had a brether. and he belonged to the oldest and wealthiest aristocracy of Ireland, according to a a statement here today by Mrs. W. O. it Iarnum. an old friend from Ireland. who knew him well when he was a bly. His father 's name was May. Will  iam Tanner," she said. "He was the only one of his family who was not something of a snob. At the same time another Chicagoah, Mrs. John H. Borden, a close friend of Mabel Normand, was rising to the lateter 's defense, She returned here recently after a five months' visit with Miss Normand. "Mabel is not in love, and never was in love, with Mr. Taylor," she said. "Bill Taylor was in love with her, very much so, but it was unrequited. I She had been engaged to Mack Sennett, but that was an old affair, and now they are merely good friends. "Mabel never mentioned Mary Miles Minter 's name to me, If there had been an affair between Mr. Tayler and Miss Minter. I believe Mabel would have t old me, And as to those bably" letters, I read them to Mabel over the telephone when she was away. I( she Irish Family, Says Friendhan been in love, she would never have allowed me to do that. a   
1922-02-12	(Los Angeles)--A group of investigators tonight went to dig up the cellar in the Taylor home. They had been told by an anonymous informant that something of great value was hidden in the cellar; something not money, but which would show a connection between certain persons and the slaying. They went out armed with picks and shovels and spades, only to find there was no cellar.
1922-02-12	My mother was a lady, sire, Though she lived in Hollywood; But how she ever got that way, I've never understood.
1922-02-12	Screen Land, Scream Land, I simply can't allude To what they did; 'twas everything But what they really should. Only were they decent On days when the weather was good; They'd do a nice, clean murder, out In dear old Hollywood. [2]
1922-02-12	(Chicago)--Solomon Fink read aloud to his family last night newspaper dispatches describing diamonds and automobiles owned by the motion picture folk of Hollywood. Two hours later a patrolman found Herman Fink, 5, and Mollie Fischer, 4, a neighbor's child, wandering hand in hand through the Northwestern Railway Station. The children told the patrolman, 'We are going to Hollywood, where all the rich people live.'
1922-02-12	[regarding the night of the murder] Mrs. M. S. Stone, mother-in-law of A. W. Wachter, of 412-A South Alvarado Street, gave one of the most interesting recitals that has yet come to the attention of officers. She said: 'I was walking slowly up Alvarado Street, going to the home of Mr. Wachter for dinner.' Mrs. Stone lives at the Duke Apartments on South Carondelet Street, and frequently goes to the Wachter home for dinner, generally walking north on Alvarado Street from Westlake Park to the latter home. 'As I crossed from the west to the east side of Alvarado Street, at Sixth, I saw a man standing on the corner, apparently waiting for a car. But he didn't board the car that came along, and as I was rather nervous about walking up the street in the dusk, I waited momentarily on the corner.' The man stopped in front of the Hotel Alvarado, according to Mrs. Stone, and transferred something from his left hip pocket to the right hand pocket of his coat. 'Then he started rather aimlessly up the hill, on Alvarado Street,' Mrs. Stone continued. 'I walked on behind him, and when he reached Maryland Street he turned north [sic] out of Alvarado.' Maryland Street is the one that runs directly behind the apartment occupied by Taylor. Mrs. Stone said that when she noticed the man at first she said to herself that he would have been well dressed except for the fact that his suit did not appear to fit well at the collar--that it bulged uncertainly in the rear, and that his collar was not visible. 'At that time,' Mrs. Stone said, speaking of the man's turning into Maryland Street, 'I thought it might have been Taylor's chef.' She knew Edward F. Sands, Taylor's former valet and chauffeur [sic], as his chef, having seen him in the court at various times wearing the white cap common to cooks.
1922-02-12	Douglas MacLean, of 406-B South Alvarado, told one of the most interesting stories of all. Mrs. MacLean was the one who saw the mystery man leaving the Taylor home just after the shot was fired. Her description of the man has been given time and again, and both say that they have been bothered greatly by detectives and newspaper men, repeating over and over the same story. 'Mrs. MacLean and I had just finished dinner,' Mr. MacLean said. 'The night being rather chilly, I had gone upstairs to the bathroom, to get a small electric stove we have there, and bring it downstairs. 'I heard a report like a shot, but thought it merely an automobile backfiring. 'Mrs. MacLean also heard it. She went to the door and glanced around. She saw the man on Taylor's porch. He was standing with the screen door in his hand, apparently looking about. He then turned back to the door as if speaking farewell, and after doing so left the porch, walking down the walk toward Alvarado street. [sic] No, he didn't run, nor did he seem hurried.' Mrs. MacLean said she did not see the man's face. In fact, it's rather hard to distinguish anyone at that distance in the court, because of the peculiar lighting system. And Mr. MacLean, to demonstrate this fact to the detectives, went from his house to the porch of the Taylor home and posed in the same manner as the man whom his wife had seen. 'Mrs. MacLean thought nothing of the incident,' he concluded, 'and we started playing dominoes together, doing so for some time, before retiring.'
1922-02-12	...Miss Edna Purviance, film actress who lives at 402 A South Alvarado, in the house next to the one occupied by Taylor, said: 'I was not at home the night of the murder, so of course I did not hear or see anything unusual.' She explained that she and her mother had been away from home until about 11:45 o'clock. 'Reports in the newspapers that I tried the door and rang the bell of Mr. Taylor's home, when I noticed lights burning there, are false,' Miss Purviance said. 'There is nothing unusual to me in the sight of lights burning in a private home at midnight, and I certainly did not try to enter the house that night.'
1922-02-12	While members of the local police and detective departments were running down every available clew in the probe into the mystery murder of William D. Taylor, noted film director, two representatives of a nationally known detective agency recently assigned to the case were engaged in a thorough quiz of every person living in the court in which the director formerly lived. And Mrs. M. S. Stone, mother-in-law of A. W. Wachter, of 412-A South Alvarado street, gave one of the most interesting recitals that has yet come to the attention of officers. She said: 'I was walking slowly up Alvarado street, going to the home of Mr. Wachter for dinner.' Mrs. Stone lives at the Duke Apartments on South Carondelet street, and frequently goes to the Wachter home for dinner, generally walking north on Alvarado street from Westlake Park to the latter home. 'As I crossed from the west to the east side of Alvarado street, at Sixth, I saw a man standing on the corner, apparently waiting for a car. But he didn't board the car that came along, and as I was rather nervous about walking up the street in the dusk, I waited momentarily on the corner.' The man stopped in front of the Hotel Alvarado, according to Mrs. Stone, and transferred something from his left hip pocket to the right hand pocket of his coat. 'Then he started rather aimlessly up the hill, on Alvarado street,' Mrs. Stone continued. 'I walked on behind him, and when he reached Maryland street he turned north out of Alvarado.' Maryland street is the one that runs directly behind the apartments occupied by Taylor. Mrs. Stone said that when she noticed the man at first she said to herself that he would have been well dressed except for the fact that his suit did not appear to fit well at the collar--that it bulged uncertainly in the rear, and that his collar was not visible. 'At that time,' Mrs. Stone said, speaking of the man's turning into Maryland street, 'I thought it might have been Taylor's chef.' She knew Edward F. Sands, Taylor's former valet and chauffeur, as his chef, having seen him in the court at various times wearing the white cap common to cooks. But this man was taller. She described the man she had seen as being 5 feet 9 inches in height, wearing a dark suit, tan oxfords and dark socks. Also, she said, his hair was dark, that his neck and earl lobes were thick and his skin ruddy. She said he wore a cap, although she could not distinguish whether it was plaid or checked. But she did not get a good look at his face when she first encountered him. Later in the evening, after Mr. and Mrs. Wachter had left the house, she took little Lynette Wachter, her granddaughter to bed. Just as they were mounting the stairs, about 8 o'clock, she though she heard a pistol shot, but fearing to frighten her charge, she did not mention it. But after arriving upstairs, she went to the window and looked out. 'I had a strange feeling,' Mrs. Stone said, 'and thought at the time that I was glad my daughter lived on the south side of the court, because of the shrubbery on the north side. Mrs. Stone said that Mr. and Mrs. Wachter had returned home about 11:30 o'clock in the evening. N. J. Harrington, of 408-A South Alvarado, threw further light on the case, and also added to its mystery. Last August, he said, he was returning home after dark one night. After putting his car in the garage, he passed the house occupied by Taylor and saw a man peering into one of the windows which was not fully curtained. 'He was about 5 feet 9 inches in height,' Mr. Harrington said, 'about 30 years of age, and weighed about 160 pounds. He had regular features and was dressed in a gray suit and cap. No, it was not Sands. I had seen him too often in the court to mistake him.' And on the Monday preceding the murder-- When Harrington again walked by the Taylor home, he saw two men at Taylor's front door. They apparently had rung the bell and when no one answered, they were talking between themselves on the veranda. One was much smaller than the other, and one wore a cap, the other a hat. Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Lawrence of 400-A South Alvarado also told an interesting story. The family was downstairs on the evening of the murder until about 8:30 o'clock, when Mrs. Lawrence went to the bedroom upstairs. 'My husband said he heard a short conversation--portions of it--a woman's laugh, a man say good-by, and then a car driving away,' Mrs. Lawrence said. Their apartment is the nearest in the court to Alvarado street. 'That is all we know.' But about a week before Taylor's murder, Mrs. Lawrence said she went home alone one night, before 7 o'clock, and saw two men loitering behind their home. And several days previous to Taylor's death, a man came to the Lawrence home inquiring for Taylor. 'He looked enough like Taylor to have been his twin,' Mr. Lawrence said. Miss Edna Purviance, film actress, who lives at 402-A South Alvarado, in the house next to the one occupied by Taylor, said: 'I was not at home the night of the murder, so of course I did not hear or see anything unusual.' She explained that she and her mother had been away from home until about 11:45 o'clock. 'Reports in the newspapers that I tried the door and rang the bell at Mr. Taylor's home, when I noticed lights burning there, are false,' Miss Purviance said. 'There is nothing unusual to me in the sight of lights burning in a private home at midnight, and I certainly did not try to enter the house that night.' E. C. Jessurun of 406-A South Alvarado, and owner of the court, admitted that he had heard the shot which it is believed ended Taylor's life. 'I had been ill for about three weeks,' he said. 'My wife and I were talking and reading when I heard the report. 'I sat up, hearing the noise, but figured it was only an automobile back- fire, so lay down again.' Vern Dumas of 408-A South Alvarado said that he noticed one of the window curtains in Taylor's home slightly awry when he came home the night of the murder. He walks home directly by the Taylor house, through an areaway, after putting his car in the garage. 'But I didn't notice particularly,' he said: 'It looked as if a table had been pushed against it.' Both Dumas and H. H. Lewin commented on the preciseness with which Taylor's body was arranged on the floor. 'It looked as if he had been laid out in a coffin for burial,' both said. Then came an interview with A. W. Wachter of 412-A South Alvarado. He said that on Thursday night, more than a week after Taylor's murder, a Marmon coupe had driven up in front of the entrance to the court. Wachter is in the automobile business, and says he can tell the make of a car by the hum of its engine. 'The engine remained running,' Wachter said, 'but the lights were turned out. A man ran to the door of Taylor's home and rang the bell, but when no one responded, he ran back to the car, jumped in, the lights were flashed on, and the car sped away.' Wachter said that the night before the murder he had seen Mabel Normand and Taylor get in a coupe and drive away. On the night of the murder, he said, he was away from home from before 8 o'clock until about 11:15 or 11:30, but that about 4 a.m. on February 2 he had risen and looked out the window, noticing the lights burning in Taylor's home. C. A. Fitzhenry, a friend of Wachter, who visited him frequently, told Wachter that on several occasions, upon leaving the court, he had seen a man in a black overcoat and black Fedora hat standing at the corner of Maryland and Alvarado streets. Mr. and Mrs. S. G. Buckner of 412-B South Alvarado street, also told an interesting story. They were at a dancing party on the fateful Wednesday night, they said, and did not return home until about 4:30 o'clock Thursday morning. 'We noticed the lights then,' both said, 'burning in Taylor's home.' They thought nothing of it, however, but when Mr. Buckner arose at 6 o'clock to investigate trouble with their hot-water heater the lights were still burning. 'I thought it strange at the time,' he said. Later they were awakened by the screams of Henry Peavey, Taylor's negro servant. 'He was running about the lawn and walks, screaming that Mr. Taylor was murdered,' Mrs. Buckner said. Mr. Buckner hurried over to the house, being one of the first to arrive there. He also was the man who notified the police of Taylor's death. 'I noticed and commented on the fact that the body was laid out precisely,' Mr. Buckner said. 'The cuffs and collar were straight and his clothing not disarranged at all. I thought it strange at the time that a man murdered should fall in such a position.' Mr. Buckner noticed that Taylor's wrist watch, just visible below the cuff at his left wrist, showed the hour as being just 8 o'clock when he saw it. He said he thought the watch was still running. And Douglas MacLean, of 406-B South Alvarado, told one of the most interesting stories of all. Mrs. MacLean was the one who saw the mystery man leaving the Taylor house just after the shot was fired. Her description of the man has been given time and again, and both say that they have been bothered greatly by detectives and newspaper men, repeating over and over the same story. 'Mrs. MacLean and I had just finished dinner,' Mr. MacLean said. 'The night being rather chilly, I had gone upstairs to the bathroom, to get a small electric stove we have there, and bring it downstairs. 'I heard a report like a shot, but thought it merely an automobile backfiring. 'Mrs. MacLean also heard it. She went to the door and glanced around. She saw the man on Taylor's porch. He was standing with the screen door in his hand, apparently looking about. He then turned back to the door as if speaking farewell, and after doing so left the porch, walking down the walk toward Alvarado street. No, he didn't run, nor did he seem hurried.' Mrs. MacLean said she did not see the man's face. In fact, it's rather hard to distinguish anyone at that distance in the court, because of the peculiar lighting system. And Mr. MacLean, to demonstrate this fact to the detectives, went from his house to the porch of the Taylor home and posed in the same manner as the man whom his wife had seen. 'Mrs. MacLean thought nothing of the incident,' he concluded, 'and we started playing dominoes together, doing so for some time before retiring.'
1922-02-12	Henry Peavey, colored valet for Mr. Taylor. was summarily called to Dist.-Atty. Woolwine's office late yesterday following the discovery of new and important information regarding the murder. Peavey had previously been questioned at considerable length in Mr. Woolwine's office by Chief Deputy Doran. The valet arrived at Mr. Woolwine's office shortly after 3 p.m. yesterday and was closeted for a considerable time with the District Attorney, Mr. Doran and officers of the police department and of the Sheriff's force. The instructions for the officers to bring Peavey to the office where the investigation into the murder mystery has been centralized came shortly after a new witness had been in long conference with the officials. This witness whose name was said by Undersheriff Biscailus and Deputy Sheriff Nolan to be Henry Britt, but which was signed by the young man as Edward F. Arto, was taken to Mr. Woolwine's office from Sheriff Traeger's headquarters. He refused to give his name to newspaper men. Mr. Arto, as he signed himself. said he over heard a conversation either the night of the murder or the night before between Peavey and another man regarding Mr. Taylor's affairs. The nature of the conversation aside from that Mr. Arto declined to divulge, but he believed the information of value to the investigators. Mr. Arto was going to the home of some relatives near the Taylor apartments on South Alvarado street about 7:10 p.m. when he heard the two men talking. He gave a rather vague description of the strange man but said he was an American apparently, wore a cap and aroused Mr. Arto's suspicion. PEAVEY STRENUOUSLY DENIED THAT HE HELD ANY SUCH CONVERSATION.
1922-02-12	A man suspected by at least six police investigators of having first- hand knowledge of the slaying of William Desmond Taylor, internationally known film director, has been identified by the detectives working on the case and by some of the witnesses questioned by Dist.-Atty. Woolwine in the past few days, and his arrest is believed to be a matter of hours. This was indicated by Captain of Detectives Adams when he admitted that several places where the suspect is expected to appear were guarded by his officers yesterday. The man's name is known to The Times, but is withheld at the request of the authorities. A belief that the suspect may be the man who killed Taylor was strengthened yesterday following an all-night investigation of facts uncovered Friday. The man, the officers now believe, is the owner of the blood-stained cap found by the police and has been in hiding since the night of the murder. His actions have been traced sufficiently to convince a number of the investigators that he was either implicated in the slaying of Taylor or is withholding some important information. His home in an apartment-house on West Fourth Street was searched by the officers armed with a search warrant early yesterday morning. Later the search for the man shifted to a downtown location and out of town. 'The man is in town, we are certain of this,' one of the detectives on the case said early yesterday morning. 'We know all about his actions, and as soon as we can lay our hands on him we will place him under arrest on the charge of murdering William D. Taylor.' That the officers are on the right track was indicated by the fact that the cap found by the police was taken to the District Attorney's office and there exhibited to Miss Mabel Normand and William Davis, her chauffeur, shortly before midnight Friday. Immediately after the reported identification of the cap the officers left the District Attorney's office with orders to arrest the suspects. The arrest of Walter Thiele by Detectives Lloyd and Roberts on the charge of suspicion of burglary had only a remote connection with the investigation concerning the suspect. The officers admit that Thiele may be able to give them some information about the man, but stated emphatically that Thiele had no knowledge of the crime or anything directly connected with it. Henry Peavey, colored valet for Mr. Taylor, was summarily called to Dist.-Atty. Woolwine's office late yesterday following the discovery of new and important information regarding the murder. Peavey had previously been questioned at considerable length in Mr. Woolwine's office by Chief Deputy Doran. The valet arrived at Mr. Woolwine's office shortly after 8 p.m. yesterday and was closeted for a considerable time with the District Attorney, Mr. Doran and officers of the police department and of the Sheriff's force. The instructions for the officers to bring Peavey to the office where the investigation into the murder mystery has been centralized came shortly after a new witness had been in long conference with the officials. The witness, whose name was said by Undersheriff Biscailuz and Deputy Sheriff Nolan to be Henry Britt, but which was signed by the young man as Edward F. Arto, was taken to Mr. Woolwine's office from Sheriff Traeger's headquarters. He refused to give his name to newspaper men. Mr. Arto, as he signed himself, said he overheard a conversation either the night of the murder or the night before between Peavey and another man regarding Mr. Taylor's affairs. The nature of the conversation aside from that Mr. Arto declined to divulge, but he believed the information of value to the investigators. Mr. Arto was going to the home of some relatives near the Taylor apartments on South Alvarado street about 7:10 p.m. when he heard the two men talking. He gave a rather vague description of the strange man but said he was an American apparently, wore a cap and aroused Mr. Arto's sus[....(gap)] stated. Peavey strenuously denied that he held any such conversation. The Taylor home faces south into an apartment court and the rear of the building is flush with the sidewalk on Maryland street. It was at this point that the conversation took place, the witness stated...
1922-02-12	The Whitney family have the greatest respect for Miss Mary Miles Minter, we are good friends, but we know of nothing that would throw light on the killing of William Desmond Taylor, who was Miss Minter's director in Santa Barbara,' said H. R. Whitney, whose wife, Charlotte Whitney, was Miss Minter's secretary. Efforts to see Mrs. Whitney failed, because she was with friends, and the family said would not be back tonight, that they did not know where she had gone. The talk developed that a member of the Los Angeles Sheriff's office was here two days ago and had a long talk with Charlotte Whitney in connection with the associations between Mr. Taylor and Miss Minter, but 'he could get nothing of importance, because Mrs. Whitney knew nothing,' the husband said.
1922-02-12	It rather lends interest to an interview to be obliged to pick your victim in the corridor of a crowded hotel like the Biltmore. Having felt that an interview with May McAvoy was strictly due before her vacation terminated, we arrived a little ahead of the appointed time and waited to find the face so familiar to us on the screen. A blue-eyes sub-deb paused uncertainly and sat on our divan, profile view, there was a resemblance. 'Are you Miss McAvoy?' we inquired. The girl beamed; 'no,' said she, 'but thanks for the compliment. I think she is just the sweetest thing, and if you expect her I shan't move till she comes and I get a good look at her.' Shortly after we spotted a tiny person in a big fur coat and after making a careful close-up found that we were correct. The orchestra struck up Chopin's Military Polonaise' and the small person indicated that she did not like music with her interviews, so we betook ourselves to the quiet grill, much to the disappointment of the sub- deb. There we decided that May McAvoy might be Julia Sanderson's little sister and were told that every one else had said the same thing. There is no use asking a New York girl how she likes her home town and we knew from the Motion Picture Directory that May McAvoy was born here; we knew the date, too, and it was ridiculously short time ago. We also knew that she is four feet eleven inches in height and weighs ninety-four pounds. Then there is a long list of the pictures she has appeared in, although she did not start in early childhood. 'I went to school with Genevieve and Vivan Tobin. We were all stage- struck. After they went on the stage I decided to try pictures, and I was lucky enough to get a part after I had been atmosphere in three. These small parts were followed by a couple of more important ones and then I co-starred for Mr. Blackton. 'With all the lovely parts I have had, Grizel is my favorite. Since then I have played 'kids' and ingenues, but there was so much to Grizel. Working with Mr. and Mrs. Robertson also made 'Sentimental Tommy' a picture to remember.' We asked her if she would like to do 'Peter Pan,' to which she replied that she thought Peter should be a boy, but that she would love to do Wendy. This seemed to us a wise choice, for May McAvoy is one of the most feminine little people we have ever met. There is something about her that is intensely serious when she talks of her work, and it is astonishing to learn that any one so fragile could stand the grind of making seven pictures in ten months. 'One of the best directors I ever had was poor Mr. Taylor, who directed me just a short time ago. I cannot understand this awful tragedy.' 'You certainly must have needed this vacation,' we ventured. 'Yes; it was nice to see New York again. Nothing is changed much. I have been to the dentist, bought some clothes and danced a little, that is all, but the time has flown and I shall be on my way back by next Sunday.' 'And your next picture?' 'It may be 'Blood and Sand' with Bebe Daniels and Rodolph Valentino, in which I shall be the simple Spanish wife. 'I love California, especially when one is working as hard as I have this past year. Only about a week of rest between pictures, and then I get in a little golf. Most of the clothes I have added in New York are sport things. We don't go in for formal evening gowns much and the parts I get seldom demand them, either. I am never grown up enough. 'Up in New Hampshire where I went for an exhibitors' convention, I had my first sleigh ride. I also made my first speech, and it has settled my mind forever upon the subject of personal appearances. I nearly died of nerves. Never again. 'I would really rather go back to work than do anything I know of, and I much prefer being in California.' On the whole May McAovy seems to be a girl who appreciates her blessing. She has had wonderful success owing to the rare quality of her work on the screen, and she likes it all.
1922-02-12	WATCHING TO SEIZE TAYLOR SUSPECT Loss Angeles Detectives Awalt Return of Man Who, They Assert, Did Killing." CLUE IN A STAINED HAT Anonymous Letter Sets Police to Seeking Something Buried Under Taylor House. Special to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Cal., Feb. 11.While four detectives were guarding a house in West Fourth Street tonight, awaiting the appearance of a man who, it is said, will be charged with the murder of William Desmond Taylor, Captain D. L. Adams and Deputy Sheriff Harvey Bell rushed out on a mysterious new clew, while a group of investigators went to dig up the cellar in the Taylor home. They had been told by an anonymous informant that the crime was committed at 10:15 o'clock at night and that something of great value was hidden in the cellar. This something was not money, but would show a connection between certain persons and the crime, They went out, armed with picks, shovels and spades, only to find there was no cellar. There was, however, at the side of the house an opening in the wall. A board was removed from the opening, when there was found room for a small-seized man to crawl a little way under the house. The only thing discovered up to a late hour was a gas meter. The police are withholding the name of the man sought in Fourth Street until after he is taken. They asserted, however, that they have traced his movements for more than a week and have evidence that he knows about the murder. They say too, that he is the owner of the bloodstained cap taken last night from Walter Thiele, who was arrested last night on suspicion but later cleared. Jealousy Clew Sought. LOS ANGELES, Cal., Feb. II. Henry Peavey, who was the houseman for William Desmond Taylor, murdered film Director, was escorted late today to the office of District Attorney Thomas Lee Woolwine by two Deputy Sheriffs. The deputies, Peavey, Mr. Woolwine, W C. Doran, his chief deputy, and a court reporter were all secluded for several hours in Mr. Woolwine's private office. A half hour after the conference began Captain David L. Adams of the Los Angeles Police Department, who has had charge of the police investigation, joined the other officials and Peavey. This was the first time that representatives of the three principal offices working on the case that is, the police, the Sheriff and the District Attorney had met in a joint conference. Peavey has made several statements, including a very extended one taken by the police. All of his stories have had to do with the life of Mr. Taylor in the months that Peavey was employed by him and with occurrences surrounding the finding of Taylor's body. The taking of a new statement under the circumstances existing today was deemed to mean that further investigation of the Sheriff's theory of jealousy as a possible motive for the crime was to be made by all the officers employed on the case. Other than the examination of Peavey, apparently little of importance happened today in the murder inquiry. Peavey left the office after having been closeted with the officiais about an hour. He went out alone, the officials continuing their conference when he departed. "I have nothing to say," Peavey told reporters. "I've just told my story over again to Mr. Woolwine. Under Sheriff Biscailluse and Captain  Adams came out a little later. "I cannot say that anything new has developed from the questioning of Peavey," Biscailluse said. "However, that does not mean that no new angle of investigation has been discovered." We will have to check up on certain matters before we can determine that." Taylor's Publicity Man Calls. Ted Taylor, former publicity man for the slain director, accompanied by his wife, called at the District Attorney's office late in the afternoon and asked for a conference. They said they wished to discuss certain theories they had about the tragedy. Mr. Woolwine talked with them for a few minutes, then left them closeted with a detective. The District Attorney said that every one he had questioned about the case told a straightforward story without hesitancy or the slightest indication of an attempt to conceal anything." Mr. Woolwine mentioned by name Mary Miles Minter, film actress, well acquainted with the slain director, saying her story had been " frank and straightforward." Mr. Woolwine said some "vague surmises" concerning the case, but "no real theories," had been advanced by some of those he questioned. "Practically every one has mentioned the name of Edward F. Sands, Taylor's former Secretary, who is missing," the District Attorney said." We still believe it is a matter of great importance to get in touch with that man. Letters written by Miss Normand to Taylor and found in a room in his house remained in possession of Mr. Woolwine today, but he failed to attach any "significance" to them. "They certainly will not be published without Miss Normand's consent," the District Attorney said in reply to a question by a reporter. He added that Miss Normand had not given such consent. Youth is Cleared of Connection. Walter Thiele, 25 years of age, who said he was born in Oakland and has been in Los Angeles for a year, was taken into custody shortly before midnight last night and booked at the city jail on charges of carrying a concealed weapon and suspicion of burglary. During the examination of Mabel Normand by District Attorney Woolwine four police detectives took into the conference a cap reported to have been worn by Thiele at the time of his arrest indicating a possible connection with the Taylor case, but David Adams, captain of detectives, announced later that the police investigation of Thiele convinced him that Thiele had no connection with nor could he furnish any information concerning the Taylor case. A bloodstained cap found in Thiele' s room, the captain said, has no bearing on the Taylor investigation. "Considerable work has been done outside of the examination of witnesses in my office," Woolwine said today, and this examination is really but a small part of the investigation. Results thus far are that the investigation has been entirely devold of workable clues. Scores of angles have been investigated, but we have not been able to get a toehold in the case leading to the solution." Thirty members of the independent Soreen Artists' Guild issued a statement here today asking fair play from the public in its consideration of conditions in the motion picture industry and especially in the lives of the motion picture people. The statement follows: "We do not ask for particular favors but only for the American principle upon which this democracy was founded one of fair play. "The recent upsavory publicity that has followed the wake of the demise of the late William Taylor has resulted in our industry being maligned, mere rumor accepted as fact and idle gossip magnified into reality. "Billy Taylor needs no eulogy. The life he led was but an indication of the true character of the man who was struck down by an assassin's bullet. "The police have given as a theory that revenge accentuated the crime that resulted in William Taylor's death, exonerating the motion picture industry or any of its persons as being implicated. Deny Allegations of Vice. "We are not rampant with vice, "The American public did not attack all Governors because a charge was filed against a certain State Executive. "The American public did not attack all Ministers because a wanton crime was charged to a preacher of the gospel. "All we ask is that the public bear with this industry and not accept rumors as fact. "We are just normal human beings. We are not ethereal, and do not want to be regarded as such. "Our happy marriages far exceed those of divores. Our church-going populace is equal to that of any other profession. "We are law abiding citizens, and we rear families, and yet William Taylor's death has resulted in aspersions being cast upon this industry and upon us. We are striving to make the world a better place to live in through the screen. And we, who have accepted that responsibility placed upon us by the public through their patronage, feel it is a personal affront for them to assume through innuendo that we are not worthy of that honour. "We have striven hard, and we believe succeeded in giving joy to millions. In return it is only fair that we expect support, at least until rumor is substantiated by fact. "We deny that motion picture people are as pictured. We deny that the industry is rampant with crime and vice. We deny that motion picture people are sinners, and we only quote the Bible to those who malign us: 'Let he without sin cast the stone.' "We are a part of every American home, not through any selfish desire, but because it is the will of the public. The public has virtually accepted us as a member of each family. Yet they do not, we believe, accord us the same treatment that they would others of their household. "The American idea of fair play certainly we are not asking too much in expecting that." The statement was authorized by the following, all affiliated with the motion picture industry: Joseph W Schenck, Thomas H. Ince, Charles Chaplin, Norma Talmadge, Constance Talmadge, Anita Stewart, Allen Holubar, Richard Walton Tully, Jr., Parker Read Jr., Colonel William M. Seeling, H. O. Davis, B. P. Schulberg, Colonel Lee N. Moore, Ben Turpin, Carter de Haven, Marshall Neillan, Mack Sennett, Louis B. Mayer, Catherine MacDonald, Charles Bay, John N. Stahl, Maurice Tourneur, Guy Bates Post, J. L. Frothingham, King Vidor, Buster Keaton, Dorothy Phillips, Douglas MacLean, Florence Vidor and Hobart Bosworth. J. D. Williams, General Manager of the Associated First National Pictures also issued a statement in which he said that any statement credited to Will H. Hays and announcing that a model motion picture colony would be started in the East was unauthorized and had no foundation. Mr. Williams said that Mr. Hays shared his views that Los Angeles would continue to be the centre of the industry. FRESNO, Cal., Feb, 11. The man believed to be Edward F. Sands, wanted in Los Angeles in connection with the murder of William Desmond Taylor, who was reported living in a shack on the banks of the San Joaquin River, proved today to be a prospector named Sanborn, who had been living in the shack for months.
1922-02-12	SAN FRANCSCO YOUTH SAYS HE'S TAYLOR'S SON He Contends Slain Film Director Mother in Kansas. Is Man Who Deserted His. Special to The Neat York Times. SAN FRANCISCO, Cal., Feb. 11.Possibility that William Desmond Taylor was twice married and that a son is living in San Francisco developed here today, and the authorities here say that Ethel Daisy Deane-Tanner's claims to Taylor's estate will be contested by the San Francisco claimant. William Edward Taylor of 1,966 Twenty-second Street says he is confident the victim of the mysterious slaying in Hollywood was his father. He will go to Los Angeles Tuesday with a San Francisco detective to place his proofs before the Public Administrator there and to tell his story to District Attorney Woolwine. According to the story made public here tonight, Taylor married Olive Randall at Wallace, Kans,, in 1890. Later they moved to Laramie, Wyo., where a son was born. Subsequently Taylor deserted his wife and child. Mrs. Taylor died in Cheyenne, Wyo. in 1902. Young William Edward Taylor, so the story runs, was taken by his grandfather, John Randall, to a farm near Lindsborg, Kans., where he lived with his grandparents and attended school. In 1905, while still a boy, he came to California and worked for a time for "Lucky" Baldwin, breaking colts near Los Angeles. He came to San Francisco in 1906 and has lived here and at Larkspur, in Marin County, ever since. "The motion picture director killed in Los Angeles was my father," Taylor said today. "As to whether or not I shall be able to prove it remains to be seen. The reasons upon which I base my belief may not appeal to the authorities, but at least I can tell my story and let them investigate it. "The thought of any possible connection between a motion picture director killed in Los Angeles, and myself never once occurred to me until I saw William Desmond Taylor's picture in the paper. Even though I have no recollection of ever having seen my father, there was nothing strange about recogniging his picture. For years, ever since I was a little shaver on the farm back in Kansas, I had carried a picture of him. The pose was identical it was the same man. ""in 1910 my grandfather died and I went back to Lindsborg to claim my mother's share in his estate. The administrator, Frantz Jojnson, said I would have to prove who my father was. It was at that time I made my first serious attempt to discover his identity and whereabouts. I went to Cripple Creek, where I talked with Mrs. Sarah Leighton, who had known both my father and my mother. I also talked with Alice Darling. "In Cheyenne I talked with Bote Darling, at that time Superintendent of the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph company, who had known my parents when I was born. I taiked with many persons who had known my father when I was a baby, but none of them could tell me what had become of of him. The editor of The Cheyenne Herald, I think it was, told me my father had gone to the Klondike. "From the investigation I then made and from things told me by my grandfather, I learned my father had been born in Ireland and educated in England. He was pictured as a brilliant man, but one somewhat given to drinking. He was interested in theatricals or in a show of some sort. My grandfather, who hated him, often told me my mother had run away from home shortly before she married Taylor and that she wanted to be, or did become, an actress. Even now I have a faint recollection of the wonderful costumes she wore. I finally satisfied the administrator of my grandfather's estate as to my parentage, received my share of the property and came back to San Francisco, or rather to Larkspur. I have lived in San Francisco for the last two years. I am convinced from what has been told me of my father that he and the Los Angeles director were one and the same man. The people who told me these things still are living back in Kansas, Colorado and Wyoming, and it ought not to be difficult to determine the truth of the matter. Anyhow, I am going to Los Angeles Tuesday to tell the authorities what I know and what I suspect." The San Francisco claimant to the Taylor estate undeniably bears a strong resemblance to the slain film director. The fact is freely commented on by authorities here. The lines of his face are more rugged, but the likeness is unmistakable. He looks to be about 30 years old. He is married and has four children. He is employed by a local fruit concern and has a good reputation.   
1922-02-12	Hollywood All Hollywood is but a stage, The movie actors are the players, Where comedy is all the rage And they of fun the wild purveyors-- On with the dance, let joy prevail, Let no gloom-spreader in to dim it, Their wish is law, they have the kale, [1] They own the town and go the limit. Be careful if you can't be good, They say, as from the dance they're wending Yet comedy at Hollywood Oft' seems to have a tragic ending. And yet while Hollywood's a lot Where movie folk cut up their capers, The public doesn't get the plot Until they read it in the papers.
1922-02-12	Los Angeles, Feb. 11--Miss Gene Ross, silhouette artist, who lives in the Ambassador hotel, gave this afternoon a word silhouette of William D. Taylor. She had regarded him she said, as a man of drab personality, a camouflage man who fitted into the background, whose clothes were somber, dull, colorless, whose conversation was quiet, vague and submerged. But on the Saturday night before his death, she says, she noted a change in the man. He had come to her studio in the Ambassador hotel with Miss Claire Windsor. And while Miss Windsor was looking over the studies in black an white, Taylor paced the floor, nervous, fear in his manner, his walk, the tension of his hands. She knew he was afraid of something, she said. He paid no attention to either herself or his companion, yet he seemed to wince and stare when persons passed by the door.
1922-02-13	One of the most startling bits of information turned over to the investigators was the reported statement of Henry Peavey, Taylor's colored servant, that he expected to see his employer killed. This statement was made, it is said, the day following the robbery of Taylor's home by Sands. Shortly after the last robbery of the slain director's home Peavey is said to have told Harold Freeman, a milkman who delivered milk to the Taylor home, that he expected to find Taylor dead on the morning after the robbery was committed and would not be surprised if he himself were not later killed. ...Another development of importance concerned information about a woman whom Edward F. Sands, former valet-secretary to Taylor, is alleged to have visited frequently. ...Freeman, who says he met Sands every morning for several months, also declared that he saw the fugitive ex-servant shortly after Christmas in front of a downtown theater. Freeman states that he and his wife were standing in front of the showhouse early in the evening when Sands passed. Freeman further declared, it is said, that Sands asserted that he had 'something on Taylor.' On several occasions when Freeman remarked how well Taylor treated his employee, Sands is said to have replied: 'Well, he has to treat me right, for I certainly have the goods on him.'
1922-02-13	Coming fast on the latest new and important developments in the William Desmond Taylor murder mystery during the day, District Attorney Thomas Lee Woolwine late last night hurriedly left his office in his motor car and in company with former Chief of Police Charles A. Jones and Ben Smith, court reporter, started on a quest shrouded in mystery, which is regarded as likely to have a vital bearing on the case. The District Attorney's hurried trip apparently resulted from a conference at his home in which a woman and two men figured. A woman was seen to leave Woolwine's house after an extended visit while the district attorney and Jones were there. She drove away alone but was observed a short time later in her car with a male companion. They drove by Woolwine's house and then disappeared. But whatever transpired during the conference electrified the prosecutor and his aides into instant action. Woolwine and Jones hurried to the Hall of Records in a taxicab where they picked up Smith, the court reporter. Mabel Normand, noted film actress and close friend of the slain director, was reported last night to be dangerously ill, even in more serious condition than on Saturday night, as exclusively told in yesterday's Examiner. It was learned that she is being attended by a trained nurse and is being watched over carefully by her physician. Her condition was said to be so serious that all visitors would be denied entrance to her home for at least ten days. She suffered a severe nervous relapse some days ago. But yesterday it was said that her illness had reached a serious stage as to be regarded as dangerous. One of the most startling bits of information turned over to the investigators was the reported statement of Henry Peavey, Taylor's colored servant, that he expected to see his employer killed. This statement was made, it is said, the day following the robbery of Taylor's home by Sands. Shortly after the last robbery of the slain director's home Peavey is said to have told Harold Freeman, a milkman who delivered milk to the Taylor home, that he expected to find Taylor dead on the morning after the robbery was committed and would not be surprised if he himself were not later killed. Of strange import was Peavey's description, according to Freeman, of how he expected to find Taylor's dead body. The description was said to correspond with the position in which Taylor was found on the morning of February 1 [sic]. Whether this description was merely a strange mixture of superstition and clairvoyance or the result of some information upon which the belief was based is a matter upon which Peavey will be quizzed, according to the officers. Another development of importance concerned information about a woman whom Edward F. Sands, former valet-secretary to Taylor, is alleged to have visited frequently. This information was turned over to the authorities by Freeman. According to Freeman, Sands was in the habit of driving Taylor's car to this woman's house at least once a day during the director's absence in Europe. This address is in the hands of The Examiner but is being withheld at the request of officers who are investigating the clue. Freeman, who says he met Sands every morning for several months, also declared that he saw the fugitive ex-servant shortly after Christmas in front of a downtown theater. Freeman states that he and his wife were standing in front of the showhouse early in the evening when Sands passed. Freeman further declared, it is said, that Sands asserted that he had 'something on Taylor.' On several occasions when Freeman remarked how well Taylor treated his employee, Sands is said to have replied: 'Well, he has to treat me right, for I certainly have the goods on him.' Captain of Detectives David L. Adams, who has heretofore held that the arrest of Sands was the one immediately vital objective toward which the police should bend their efforts, yesterday admitted that officers were now searching for a man whose name has not been mentioned in the case. 'I cannot make public what clues the detectives are following,' said the captain, 'but I will say that if there is an arrest in the very near future it will likely be of a person not previously mentioned in the baffling mystery and who has not been questioned. 'If my men bring in some person who has been a total stranger to the investigation I shall not be surprised. Although I do not look for an arrest today, this is a case in which the unexpected may happen.' The importance the captain attaches to this latest clue may be judged from the fact that he has assigned four of his ablest officers to find and question the man referred to. Detective Sergeant Murphy and another investigator were on an especially important angle, it was said... Captain of Detectives David L. Adams yesterday scouted the theory that the cap found Friday in the room of Walter Thiele, held on a charge of suspicion of burglar, bore out any indication that it, in any way, figured in the Taylor murder case. This cap, brought to the district attorney's office shortly before midnight Friday and shown in the presence of Mabel Normand, the film star, was described by investigating authorities as bearing blood stains. These, if present, are thought to be of minor significance and such as might come from a cut finger and imprinted upon the visor. 'I have not seen the cap, but to the best of my knowledge it has no blood stains whatever, Captain Adams said. 'I have never intimated to anyone that Thiele, in whose rooms it was found, had anything to do with the murder. In fact, I have eliminated both him and his companion, John Dailey, from the slightest suspicion.' Captain Adams did say, however, that a search has been instituted for Dailey, but only for the purpose of charging him jointly with suspicion of burglary in connection with the looting of an apartment house on West Fourth Street at which Dailey had been employed up to February 9 as janitor... A stirring defense was offered for Hollywood and all attackers of the morals, habits or actions of the motion picture profession as a profession were hotly scored last night at a meeting of the Screen Writers' Guild of the Authors' League of America, an organization of well known writers for the films. The meeting was held at the club house, 6716 Sunset Boulevard, and was attended by about 150 persons. Frank E. Woods, president of the organization, suggested a resolution offering $1000 for the capture of the slayer of William Desmond Taylor and made the first contribution of $100. The requested sum was quickly pledged and the motion passed. Those who subscribed $100 apiece besides Woods were: Thompson Buchanan, Albert Shelby Le Vino, J. E. Nash, Frank Condon, Perley Poore Sheehan, Walldemann Young, Wallace Clifton, Miss June Mathis and Walter Woods.
1922-02-13	The angle on which Deputy Sheriff Dewar is working is considered one of the most important since the probe was opened. The former song writer and scenarist, whose name is known to the Express, but is withheld at the request of the sheriff's office, is alleged to have been active in the operations of the narcotic ring in question, and is asserted to have certain knowledge in his possession which would prove of material value to the investigation. This man is known to have been extremely friendly with a well known actress whose name has already been mentioned in connection with the case. Dewar expected today to interview the song writer, if his alleged hiding place was located. An arrest may follow, it is said.
1922-02-13	Beg Pardon Ruth Wing Taylor today asked that newspapers retract the 'psychic' explanation of the slaying of William Desmond Taylor, in which she was quoted as receiving a 'key' to the solution from occult students. THE RECORD wishes to explain to its readers that the story came from indirect sources, and sincerely regrets its publication.
1922-02-13	...Unavailing search was made Monday for a scenario writer and his wife, wanted in connection with the Taylor murder... Search of the studios failed to reveal the whereabouts of a scenarist, a writer of 'gags' for movie comedies. This man, formerly a well-known song writer, is sought, together with his wife, because they are believed to know the whereabouts of a certain dope peddler who may be able to explain the slaying... The husband and wife, who are both scenario writers, are known to most of the prominent figures in the Los Angeles movie colony. Nobody, however, was able to tell where they now live. At the house where the couple was formerly made their home it was said their present address was unknown. The husband is a writer of 'gags,' as the funny situations in slapstick comedies are called. He has worked for nearly all of the leading film comedians, including Charlie Chaplin and 'Fatty' Arbuckle. Deputy Sheriff Frank Dewar, who dug up the clue involving the dope ring, was systematically combing the studios Monday in search of someone who might tell him where the scenarists might be found.
1922-02-13	Movie morals are very bad. They are, indeed, almost bad enough to be described in the words of almost any preacher in almost any pulpit speaking for his congregation: 'Oh, Lord, Thou knowest that we are miserable sinners, doing those things we ought not to have done, leaving undone those things we ought to have done.' Moving picture people are nearly as bad as church members. Many of them are church members. And it has been shown that of the people in the penitentiaries over 90 per cent have church affiliations, proving that--well, we'd better not get in too deep. A moving picture man has recently been on trial for manslaughter--at a time when only four or five ministers were on trial for murder, not to mention the murder trial of a clergyman's son who was also the husband of a bishop's daughter. I have my suspicions that a good deal of mischief is going on more or less surreptitiously in moving pictures, although for two years I have been working about a big studio and have never caught anybody kissing anybody except as directed in the picture. I can't say as much for any Sunday school picnic I ever attended. Divorces are very frequent in moving picture colonies. Hollywood is getting to be almost as bad as England, Chicago and some other divorce mills, though it is not yet nearly up to the standard of Indiana, which statisticians have put far ahead of Japan as a dissolver of marriages. Some moving picture people have been known to drink recently. This puts them down with the great majority. Dancing is indulged in by many and few of them favor the old fashioned waltz, which is not called that pure, sweet pastime--but which was once called the devil's favorite device and passion's perdition. Many moving picture people wear a minimum of clothes, but judging from the sermons I read about, this is the case with all the women in the world. In my two years in a picture studio I have not seen a fight (except a rehearsed one). I have heard less profanity than on a college campus. I have seen less jealousy than in a convention of college professors or scientists. I have seen tens of thousands of feet of film taken with never a quarrel, never a voice raised in temper, never a dispute that passed the bounds of artistic debate. Of course unpleasant and evil things happen, just as bad things happen everywhere as happen in the moving picture colonies. The human vices flourish normally because the movie people are human, but the human virtues flourish also for the same reason. In all comparisons, one should avoid the comparison of real people and real conditions with ideal people and conditions, because the ideal is only imaginary. Movie folk should be compared, therefore, with actual classes as they are. They will not suffer by any such juxtaposition. Moralists howl at the movies, but they howl without logic. Vices of every sort ran riot centuries before there were movies. Wicked people enter the movies, but they were wicked before they entered, and they would have gone on being wicked if they had stayed out of them. Pictures intended to appeal to evil emotion have been put on--and will be put on again. But this is true of books, plays, paintings, what not. One of the leading New York clergymen was accused by his congregation recently of trying to draw crowds by preaching salacious sermons. And thousands of clergymen have made use of the same sensationalism. It is a neat trick to denounce indecency so indecently as to attract a morbid crowd. Pulipteers used it for ages before movies were invented. But I feel that the person who is attracted to a picture, a sermon or a play, because (s)he has heard that it is spicy, was already so eager for spice that little harm is done, and a dangerous appetite may be appeased by a little homeopathy. All new arts, all old arts, like old and new religions, professions, races, are, and have been, and will be, denounced by somebody, world without end. If critics could only realize how stale their criticisms are and how carelessly they have been handled. While I do not believe in idolizing or applauding whole classes of people, I am solemnly persuaded that the motion picture people are as good, as kind, as earnest, as pure of heart, as beneficial to the welfare and virtue of the state, as any other class. A man, a woman, a girl or a boy is as safe morally in a motion picture studio as anywhere else. Which is saying much or little. The ridicule and abuse showered upon the movies differ not in the least from the showers that have greeted every other new activity. I am proud to belong to this world, and am proud of its people.
1922-02-13	...Woolwine spent the night with Charles Jones, former police chief, running down leads that cropped up in the investigation. When the district attorney arrived at his office at noon, he gave out a statement to the effect that the quest in the night had proved fruitless. Jones, he said, was in the case to help him on certain angles of the investigation. A rigid investigation of Taylor's loans was urged Monday upon local authorities by legal representatives of persons prominently identified with the film colony. According to Public Administrator Frank Bryson, stubs of Taylor's check books show many loans. Some of these were said to be large and others small. 'Find out to whom these loans were made,' an attorney said, 'and the probability is light will be thrown on the murder.' The theory of Taylor's friends is that the loans were made simply out of his generosity but others believe he was being persistently mulcted by blackmailers. 'It is known,' said one of the men urging the loan investigation, 'that Taylor's bank account was not large, this in spite of the fact that his salary was in excess of $50,000 a year. 'Suppose Taylor got tired of scattering his earnings among these bloodsuckers and refused to 'come through'--wouldn't that be a good background for a murder?' A clue, described as one of the most promising yet uncovered in the Taylor murder, today was expected to lead to an arrest soon. The new clue is connected with the past life of Taylor, who was known in New York as William Dean Tanner, and the man sought for arrest has not previously been mentioned in the case, according to Detective Captain Adams. The new tip was given by a woman whose name is being withheld... Police were given a mysterious tip that about the time Taylor was murdered on the night of February 1, Sands visited a sweetheart in Los Angeles. A close watch on the residence of the girl was established immediately and all her movements were traced. It was reported she was about to leave the city...
1922-02-13	Henry Peavey 'I refuse to talk. If you all wants to talk to me, call the wagon!' Such was the opening statement of Henry Peavey, negro valet of William D. Taylor, slain film director, when pressed for a direct interview Monday. Peavey, who has suddenly become the neighborhood hero on East Third Street since the murder of his master, has persistently refused to talk to newspapermen. Today a reporter, armed with an impressive press badge, sought the elusive Henry in his own haunts. Peavey maintains headquarters in a Jap [sic] rooming house, referred to in that part of the city as a hotel. He also frequents a poolroom a few doors east. Today he was to be found a neither place. The newspaperman, sauntering down the street, sighted Henry perched on a neighboring window ledge surrounded by a group of interested East Third-Streeters. Clad in a greenish brown suit with a pinch-back coat from under which gleamed a spotless white V-necked sweater, Henry basked in the sun and in the consciousness that he was the best-dressed negro in that part of the city. The reporter approached him. 'Henry, I'd like to talk to you,' he said. 'Ah ain't talkin' to no one,' Henry announced. 'If you all wants to talk to me--' The newspaperman drew back his coat until a press badge was visible. Mr. Peavey's eyes widened. 'If you all's from headquatahs, jes call the wagon. Mr. Woolwine, he told me not to talk to nobody.' 'I'm not going to call the wagon. It would create a scene here on the street.' 'Ah don't care,' insisted Peavey. 'They's been too much in the papers.' 'What have they been saying now?' asked the newspaperman, innocently. 'Ah don't know,' Henry said. 'I ain't had the papers read to me this morning. You see, I cain't read or write.' The reporter drew a back of cigarettes and offered one to the negro. He smiled and shook his head. His big brown eyes gleamed from under the visor of his tweed cap. 'Ah never smokes,' he said, 'an' Ah never drinks. That's why Mr. Taylor and me got along so fine together. He never drank very much. He had a bottle of champagne on ice at New Years, an' he says to me, he says, 'Henry, open that bottle, an' we'll split it between us.' 'An' Ah did, an' that was my first drink in two years.' Henry was talking loquaciously now. 'Mr. Taylor never drank 'less it was for sociability,' he explained. 'They say that he an' Miss Normand was drinkin' gin and orange juice the night he was shot. Ah don't know, cause Ah left befo' she did. Anyhow, I nevah knowed much about his private affairs, cause Ah didn't live there. Ah spose if Ah'd slept there, Ah'd known mo' 'em.' 'Have you found a new job yet, Henry?' 'Yassah!' with a pleased smile. 'Say Ah has! Ah'm going to work for Mrs. Christy Cabanne next week, or jes soon as these police and paper men get done axing me questions. 'You see, Ah used to work for her befo' Ah went to work for Mr. Taylor, jes six months ago. Mrs. Cabanne's mother, she made the fust pair pants this chile ever wore.' His big smile beamed again as he recalled the days under his former mistress--the wife of a motion picture producer--and thought of the days to come. 'Ah'll be glad when Ah cooks mah own meals again. Ah eats in these heah restaurants, then Ah goes down the street spittin' to get the bad taste out of mah mouth the whole day long. 'They's nothin' like yo' own cooking.' At the mention of eating, Henry abruptly terminated the interview. He waved an easy goodbye to the reporter, and sauntered down the street, to disappear in the restaurant which he had just branded as the horror of his epicurean existence.
1922-02-13	...'This is one of the quietest days since the murder,' said Capt. of Detectives Adams. 'It is still my opinion that Edward F. Sands is the man we want and I would give anything to get my hands on him. So far as I know only one of the detectives assigned to the case is working today and he is on a line of investigation from which I expect no immediate results.'...
1922-02-13	...Mrs. Robins, who married William Cunningham Deane-Tanner, or William Desmond Taylor, as he was later known, in 1902, said her former husband had spent some time on a pony ranch in southwestern Kansas before she met him in New York. The only information she had ever had was that which Deane-Tanner gave her personally. 'Mr. Deane-Tanner told me that when he arrived here from Ireland he had gone out to this ranch,' Mrs. Robins said, 'and his family in Ireland had bought for him a part interest in it. When I met him he referred to it and told me a flaw in the title had forced several of the shareholders, including himself, to give up their part, and he then joined the Davenport road company. After the failure of his venture in Kansas he returned to his home in Ireland for a visit. 'With reference to the claim of this Mr. Taylor in California that he is the son of the murdered director, I would not like to say flatly that the claim is or is not true, for I knew little of Mr. Deane-Tanner's life on the ranch in Kansas and did not find it necessary to catechize him minutely, and he never mentioned anything to me about having been married out there. Perhaps there is some truth in the story, or it may be another of the many persons who come forward whenever there is an estate to be settled. I have been interested in the number of persons who claim Mr. Deane-Tanner, or Taylor, was their father. To date he must have had at least six or seven children besides my own daughter, if the stories are all correct. As Mr. Deane-Tanner would only be about fifty years old now, that is rather ridiculous, I think.' Referring to the criminal end of the case, Mrs. Robins criticized the work of the Los Angeles detectives and prosecutors, saying they do not seem to be particularly anxious to solve the mystery of the identity of the murderer. 'I have bitterly resented the accounts printed in some of the newspapers here that my daughter and myself are merely interested in the financial part of the affair and are more interested in the Taylor estate than in the identity of the person who killed my former husband. This is absolutely untrue, for, as Mr. Taylor's former wife, I am deeply grieved at this terrible affair and am anxious to see the guilty person punished.' Returning to the discussion of the claim of the man who says the movie director was his father, Mrs. Robins said that it seemed improbable that her first husband ever used the name of Taylor before he left New York in 1908. She said that to old friends who knew him when he first came to this country and had been in constant touch with him during his stay in Kansas nothing was known of any marriage while he was in the West. After that, and until he disappeared, Mrs. Robins said, he never used the name of Taylor, or referred extensively to his visit to the ranch in the West. 'I never really knew Mr. Deane-Tanner's right age,' Mrs. Robins said, 'and I understood that he had been in his country about eight or nine years, when I married him at the Little Church Around the Corner in 1901. He was a fine, lovable man, and I never had occasion to closely question him about his 'past,' which every one seems trying to dig up.' No decision whether Mrs. Robins or her daughter, Ethel, will go to California in connection with the settling of the estate has been reached. Frank E. Schrenseisen of New Rochelle, attorney for Miss Tanner, said that he was awaiting developments and instructions from the office of the Public Administrator in Los Angeles. Another attorney for Miss Tanner has been engaged in Los Angeles. Should the Public Administrator place credence in the story of Taylor, it is probable that Miss Tanner will accompany her attorney to the coast. 'Mr. Deane-Tanner told my daughter that he had made a will in her favor,' Mrs. Robins said, 'and had placed it in his safe deposit box. I understand that this is another one of the items which the police say have strangely 'disappeared.' What he did with it I have no idea, but I feel that the entire matter will be straightened out. Just at present I am hoping that the murderer of Mr. Taylor will be brought to justice for this terrible crime.' Mrs. Robins commented on the strange disappearance of Dennis Deane- Tanner, brother of the murdered director, and said she had never heard a word from him since he left this city in 1912, just four years after her husband disappeared. She said the two brothers had been good friends and business associates, and that Dennis had visited their home at Larchmont on several occasions, and had met many of their friends. There was never any trouble between the brothers as far as she knew, Mrs. Robins said.
1922-02-13	Neva Gerber Says Taylor Gave Her Checks To Pay for Car and to Make Gifts to Poor LOS ANGELES, Cal, Feb. 12 Neva Gerber, film actress, who has previously stated that she was once engaged to marry William Desmond Taylor, discussed today, in an interview with The Los Angeles Examiner, "the checks" which he said "Mr. Taylor gave me from time to time," "During our engagement," she said, "Mr. Taylor gave me an automobile as a Christmas present. That is, it was understood between Mr. Taylor and myself as a holiday present. "The machine was not all paid for at the time, and in order to prevent gossips from misconstruing the spirit in which the gift was made, Mr. Taylor simply made out checks to me, so I could pay for the care in my own name. "Numerous other checks were for distributing charity to the poor in his behalf. "The last check for $500 given to me  a short time before his death, can be  accounted for very simply: Mr. Taylor  was always looking after my career and doing all he could to help me prodegress in the film world. He knew I was temporarily in financial straits at that time and voluntarily sent me $500." Miss Gerber cashed the last check three weeks before Taylor, was murdered, it was said. The detectives of the Police Department, District Attorney's office and Sheriff's office were dispatched today upon unlikely missions, and most of them reported before nightfall that they had reached the same blank wall encountered in previous investigations. Thomas Lee Woolwine, District Attorney, said he felt that little progress had been made. "We have several lines of investigation upon which a check will be made, probably tonight, but it is impossible to state whether they are vital to the case," the District Attorney said. Both the District Attorney and Capt. David L. Adams, head of the detective bureau, said the man they were most anxious to locate was Edward F. Sands, former secretary and butler of Taylor, who has been missing since last August. 
1922-02-13	(letter to the editor) No one takes pleasure in accusing a dead man, who cannot defend himself before earthly accusers; nevertheless, lovers of decency fail to understand why anyone should want to defend William D. Taylor, the latest murder victim, and describe him as an 'hitherto highly respected citizen.' Enough has come to light to prove that if he enjoyed the respect of decent people, he was not worthy of it. Some may not be certain whether this is a case of a good man gone bad or a bad man found out. Usually character and habits are fully formed before middle age and it is not likely that this man Taylor was an exception. If he had always lived a clean, respectable life he would hardly have become the moral degenerate that his actions and mode of life, as now revealed, indicate. Since it has become known that in their social life many of the leading stars are flagrant violators of the laws of God and man, living in vice and debauchery, it is time that respectable people should turn their backs upon them and protect themselves from pollution. All citizens should obey the laws, including the 18th Amendment, and when they refuse to do so, let them be punished.
1922-02-13	Los Angeles--...The police were given an astounding new theory as to the murder today, a story of revenge that smoldered for fourteen years to burst out in a sudden deadly blaze of hate--a tip that is hard to verify. It goes back to the days when Taylor was William Cunningham Deane-Tanner of New York, manager of an art story, a husband and a father, the reputed scion of a historic English-Irish family. This new theory comes from an anonymous source, but because it is plausible, the police are making such investigation of it as they can. Taylor met a beautiful young girl in New York some fifteen years ago, according to this story, and fell in love with her. He followed her wherever she went. He called her on the phone and spent hours talking to her. He took her to luncheon and to dinner. The girl was in love with him, too; wanted to become his wife. Taylor never had revealed the fact that he already was married; that he had a daughter. She was the sort of girl Taylor knew who would not allow him to get a divorce. She was clean and pure. No scandal must touch her. Taylor could not live without her and he could not marry her. He disappeared without a word to anyone. It was to him the easiest way for the girl, the hardest for himself. He gave up all he had that he might not harm the woman he loved. He was afraid of himself. The girl wondered and waited and mourned. She did not know what had happened. One night she had been in his arms and they had been talking about their future, the home they were to occupy, the joy that was to walk with them through life, the wonder of their love. And the next night silence, no answer to frantic telephone calls, no messages, no clues. It was as if she had but dreamed a lover and woke to garish reality. Suddenly the girl got up and started to run away. Her mother hastily threw the book to the bench and ran after her daughter. Out of the book slipped a picture. The girl of the story picked up the photograph and looked at it. It was the picture of Tanner. She learned in a little while all there was to know about Tanner. This was his wife. This was his daughter. He had deserted them a year ago-- simply dropped out of sight. Not a word had been heard from him. The girl went home stunned, mortally wounded. She told the story to her brother and then went out to Coney Island. And when the bright morning came men searching the beach came across her body, floating on the waves. The dead girl's brother confided to his friend, a man who had loved her as much as Tanner had. He had been Tanner's rival. He had tried desperately to win her, after Tanner had taken himself away. He had even tried to find Tanner for her, when she convinced him that life without the man was a mockery. This man, the theory has it, is the man who on the night of Wednesday, February 1, shot Taylor, who was Tanner, and stretched him dead on the floor. This man, according to the story, had tried for fourteen years to find the man who had broken the heart of the girl and killed her. He devoted his life to the pursuit. He came on old tracks in Colorado, in Alaska, in Flanders, in France, and finally he picked up the trail. There were no names mentioned in this story, but the man who gave it to the police says he is the brother of the girl who died for love of Tanner, and the police remember that Taylor once said: 'I was in love once, but the woman died.' Perhaps the story is true, they say. Perhaps the New York police can help...
1922-02-13	(Los Angeles)...The search for the couple was actuated by a belief that they could give information concerning a gang of 'dope' peddlers who, it was suspected, may have plotted against the murdered director... 'The scenarist whom we have been watching was formerly a song writer in New York,' Deputy Sheriff Dewar said further. 'Some time ago he went to Hollywood where he obtained work as a writer of humorous movie sketches. We believe he knows more about the sale of 'dope' to narcotic fiends than possibly anyone outside of the peddlers themselves.'
1922-02-14	Mabel Normand says she has the much discussed letters written by her to the late William D. Taylor. They were returned to her yesterday by the District Attorney's office and are, as she says, of such childish, innocent tone that any value they might have either as a sensational feature in the development of this case or as indications of any high emotional nature is absolutely nil. Miss Normand talked at length last night when she heard that a rumor was afloat to the effect that these letters were to be released for publication. 'For myself,' and the star spoke dramatically, 'I had no one who could possibly have been interested enough in me to do such a thing. I had no jealous lovers. My acquaintance among the men and women of Los Angeles was large, but I had never encouraged any one to believe that he was first in my heart and I had only good friends, but no one who could possibly construe my great and beautiful friendship for Mr. Taylor as anything but a most beneficial interest in my life.' 'I have all the letters in my possession,' she said, 'and I am sure that they have not been copied or tampered with. They are all of such a nonsensical nature that they have absolutely no value except as they exhibit and indicate the good fellowship which existed between Mr. Taylor and myself. 'Why, I wouldn't have dreamed of writing anything to him except of a light-hearted nature. Our whole friendship was founded on that line. He was a wonderful man, and a generous man, and many of my notes to him were requests for small contributions for my pet charities. I always gave small checks to the Little Sisters of the Poor, and I frequently asked him to make similar donations. 'He used to urge me to be less extravagant and I wanted to jolly him about his wisdom and at the same time make my own purpose clear to him. I could never refuse any one in distress. I loved to help those about me who were in hard luck, and one of the greatest pleasures that my success in pictures has brought me was that it enabled me to give freely to those who needed money. The only value I could see in a large salary was to be able to help those less fortunate than I. 'My letters were all so childish and so simple that they could have meant nothing but perhaps a moment's cheer to so wonderful a man as was Mr. Taylor. He was a fine, clean, wholesome man, and he spurred my ambition and made me study. He wasn't like younger men who always wanted me to put on evening clothes and go out somewhere to dance and dine. He liked to sit at home and talk about books. He helped me so much with my reading and study and encouraged me to think that some time I might accomplish something along that line.' Miss Normand recited from memory several of her letters to Mr. Taylor, which all bore out her statements in regard to the merry exchange of badinage between them. One letter referred to a little lark in which they had indulged one evening when they went to see a motion picture. She had dismissed her chauffeur and decided to go to another theater where a star whom she admired, Richard Barthelmess, was to be seen. 'I thought it would be fun to ride in a Ford,' said the beautiful young actress, 'so I asked a car passing if they would drive us to the next theater and Mr. Taylor and I rode and paid fifty cents for the trip. We thought it a lot of fun. 'Later we walked back to the first theater to see the beginning of the film, and on the way down the street talked about the art of the cinema, and the play itself. 'The next day I had a long letter of advice from Mr. Taylor, which was really a burlesque. He chided me for the reckless expenditure of the fifty cents, joking of course, and laughed at my enjoyment of this harmless little escapade. All our letters were exchanged in just that tone. 'You know,' added Miss Normand, 'film people work hard. They have to work at night and sometimes for days at a time have little leisure away from the set. Such frivolous notes as those Mr. Taylor and I exchanged were merely a brief recreation for both of us. They never had serious portent, and were always as light-hearted and merry as we could make them. Many of our hours were passed in the most serious kind of labor.' Miss Normand is visibly unnerved by the long strain of questioning to which she has been subjected. She feels more than anything else, however, a fierce sense of injustice to the dead. 'How can people say such terrible things about him?' she asked. 'How can those very folk with whom he was associated, the men and women he helped either with movies or friendliness think for a moment that any of those unkind things be true? It is impossible for me to consider it and I think instead of passing resolutions his friends, every one of them, should form a huge fund and offer a tremendous reward for the capture of the man who killed him. 'Every one who could should contribute even if it is only five dollars or one dollar, and many of his associates should easily give a thousand dollars and would, I believe, be glad to do so to have this terrible mystery explained. I am sure Mr. Taylor had no enemies of whom he was aware. He was a man of such open habits, such a sincere and honest man, that he could never have wrought an injustice that could animate such a terrible, vindictive act. 'The murderer must be found and punished, and I should be very glad to head a list of subscribers to such a fund if others in the industry believe that it is the right thing to do. 'It's easy enough to say, 'Oh, what a fine man he was--such a loss to the profession,' but that doesn't count in the punishment of the man who did this terrible deed. I believe that his associates will be ready in a moment to start such a fund and to make the solution of this crime a quick and sure matter. 'I have been put to terrific agony by this whole terrible event, but I make nothing of my own suffering as compared with the unclean things which have been said about the motion picture industry. The shock to me when I learned of the death of my good friend was almost unendurable, but before I could rally from that I was questioned and almost stunned by the knowledge of the horrible suspicions which this crime has wakened about the entire colony of picture folk. 'Such allegations are absolutely unfair. It is, of course, the fault of circumstances that I was the last person known to have seen Mr. Taylor, and I give thanks every day that on that particular evening I had driven to his house in my big car with my chauffeur in attendance. Sometimes I did get into my little Stutz and we went to drive together, and it is the greatest comfort to me how in this hour of distress that I had gone with attendants on that night.' Here Miss Normand broke down completely and her slight frame, emaciated and worn from the stress of the past two weeks, shook with an attack of terrific coughing. 'Oh, they are talking about sending me away for the winter,' she moaned. 'This cough is so threatening, and the doctors are afraid my lungs my suffer unless I get to a drier climate.' Miss Normand was asked concerning the wife and daughter of Mr. Taylor. 'Why, what reason do they give for not coming out here at such a time?' she exclaimed. 'If I had been that daughter with such a wonderful father nothing could have prevented my coming here at once. A father like that should make any girl proud and eager to do all in her power to solve this terrible mystery. I can't understand how she could have been indifferent to such a man.' Miss Normand did not know that Mr. Taylor had a daughter until the developments following his death, but said that long ago she had heard it mentioned that he had once been married. The star's rooms are filled with flowers and notes and telegrams of love and affection are constantly reaching her from all parts of the world. The strange fate which included her so closely in the final movements of Mr. Taylor's life has necessarily brought upon her a double burden. She is almost prostrated with grief, and has also the necessity of trying in every way she can to throw some light upon the animating cause which could have brought about so frightful a crime. She has strained every nerve in her endeavor to assist the progress of justice, and the result is almost more than her fragile physique can withstand. But her loyalty to her friend is leading her to put forth every effort, and in her desire to help unveil the identity of the mysterious slayer she is now almost at the point of total collapse. She was feeling much stronger last night, however, and with another day of rest her physicians believe she will be on the high road to the recovery of that buoyant health and spirit which is so notable a quality both in her social and professional life.
1922-02-14	A powerful ring of narcotic peddlers alleged to have been operating in Los Angeles and Hollywood and directed and led by a beautiful woman was the center of investigation last night by officers conducing search for the slayer of William Desmond Taylor, film director. The nefarious activities of the members of this band who have drawn the suspicions of the investigators were uncovered yesterday by Undersheriff Eugene Biscailuz and Deputy Sheriff Frank Dewar, working under the direction of Sheriff William I. Traeger. After carrying out a thorough search for the members of the ring the officers announced that they had suddenly and mysteriously disappeared from their usual haunts about the city. Police have traced the movements of this beautiful woman for the past few months and have found, they say, that although she moved frequently, her home was never located far from the house occupied by Taylor. The fact that none of the peddlers could be found yesterday is looked upon by the officers as a strong link in the chain which they are trying to forge about the band. Another important development yesterday was the added declaration of George F. Arto, a machinist, living on Bixel Street, that he saw a third man in front of the court, on Alvarado Street, where Taylor lived, on the night of the murder--a man other than Henry Peavey, the film director's valet, and William Davis, Mabel Normand's chauffeur. This third man, he asserts, was talking with Peavey. Davis was sitting in the car at the time. Arto, called to the District Attorney's office last Friday, related the alleged occurrence, but was not certain that he made this observation on the night of the murder. Yesterday, by exchanging notes with the friend and others, he established the fact that his visit was made on the night of February 1. Davis, upon being shown Arto's statement, reiterated that with the exception of Peavey there was no one present the night of February 1 while he waited for Miss Normand to come from the director's house. Peavey made the same statement. Following an hour's investigation yesterday afternoon between Charles A. Jones, a special investigator of the case, and other officials eight persons were taken to the District Attorney's office. Five of them were witnesses. Although the subject of the conference was not divulged it helped clear away many baseless rumors which have hindered progress. It is expected that today Detective Sergeant J. E. Winn will be assigned to the personal staff of the District Attorney to handle the murder case in the place of Detective Sergeant Eddie King, who is ill. Rumors that two new women witnesses were called to the District Attorney's office yesterday were denied by detectives. Dr. Dudley Fulton, Miss Mabel Normand's physician, yesterday issued orders that no one, not even her most intimate friends, should see the film star... Announcement by the district attorney's office that a number of letters had been found in the dead man's effects from women who had not been mentioned in the case caused something of a stir until an examination showed that they threw no light on the mystery. The identity of the mystery witness examined late Sunday night by the district attorney and Special Investigator Charles A. Jones was not revealed yesterday. It was announced, however, that no material fact had been adduced in the lengthy statement, which was taken down in shorthand by court Reporter Ben Smith... That a rigid investigation of all business papers found in Taylor's effects will be made at once was the statement from the District Attorney's office and public administrator's office yesterday. Frank Bryson, the administrator, wants to secure the last possible detail on the slain man's affairs so that the daughter and whoever, if anyone, else enters into the estate shall have a full accounting. Already there have been discovered many check stubs showing that Taylor paid out, in the aggregate, a large sum of money which, so far as may be judged, is due the estate. While it does not appear to be legally collectible, neither notes nor other security having been given, the presumption is that many of the checks to various individuals stood for money loaned. Thus far there has not been found a single entry in the unfortunate man's check stubs or elsewhere which points the way to the perpetrator of the crime. It is believed by some of the authorities that, to learn the names of all the borrowers of the director's generously disbursed funds might bring a solution to the mystery. This is on the theory that he may have loaned a large amount to some person who preferred to wipe out the debt in blood rather than money.
1922-02-14	Declaring that the widely exploited scandals charged to the motion picture industry in Los Angeles are brought about by a few, and not the majority, as a result of which Hollywood has been reflected all over the country as a den of iniquity, a sink of vice, and pest hole of drug addicts and various other euphonious and striking titles, editors of local newspapers, leaders in the motion picture industry and members of the Screen Writers Guild met yesterday at the Chamber of Commerce to discuss plans to fight such publicity in every way possible... During the conference a frank and full discussion of the press in its relation to the motion picture industry was participated in by Joseph W. Schenck, Jesse L. Lasky, Frank Woods and others representing the Producers and Screen Writers' Guild, as well as G. G. young of The Examiner, Harry Chandler, president and general manager of a morning paper [The Times]; Edward A. Dickson, editor of The Express; Edwin R. Collins, managing editor of The Herald, and Burton Kulsley, editor of the Record...
1922-02-14	Search for a missing former song writer well known in moving picture circles extended north of Los Angeles today on a 'tip' that the man wanted for what he may known of the Taylor murder mystery has been seen passing through Santa Barbara. The sudden disappearance of the man has redoubled the interest of the police in his story, and steps have been taken to have him picked up at the earliest moment. The man's description and characteristics are such, according to the police, that it will be impossible for him to conceal himself for any length of time. Strengthening the suspicion that the man has information vital to the solution of the murder mystery, it was learned today that the man suddenly dropped from sight, leaving no trace of his whereabouts. Undersheriff Eugene Biscailuz and Deputy Sheriff Frank Dewar, working under the personal direction of Sheriff William I. Traeger, have been busy for several days attempting to trace this man. According to their report he has changed his address several times during the past few months and it has been impossible to locate him. The last effort to find him was made by Biscailuz and Dewar on a secret tip giving them a Hollywood address. On their arrival it was found that he had disappeared some days previous. As a result a widespread search was instituted by the sheriff's office today. It is alleged that if the man is found the activities of a large narcotic ring, alleged to have plotted Taylor's death, will come to light and that eventually still another man suspected of the crime will be apprehended.
1922-02-14	This startling story laid before District Attorney Thomas Lee Woolwine by a bootlegger was under investigation Tuesday: 'I was delivering liquor in half-pint bottles at the Taylor bungalow. I was carrying it in two cases used to pack automobile tire inner cases. I approached the front door from the side of the house. As I reached the shrubbery at the front of the house I heard the shot. 'I stood for three or four seconds--maybe 10--and I saw a woman leave the Taylor bungalow. She hurried away. 'I said to myself: 'This is no place for me,' and I hurried back to my car. I threw the cases into the automobile with such force that I broke a half dozen of the bottles. ' 'Let's go' I told my chauffeur and we beat it east down the street.'
1922-02-14	The scene of one phase of importance shifted to Santa Barbara today. The prominent scenario writer and his wife, wanted because they are believed to have known the identity of a missing dope peddler who may have slain Taylor, are sought in the seaside city. They are reported to have gone to Santa Barbara, where the husband expected to work at some of the new studios opening there. Tuesday's developments in the still unsolved murder drew a well-known movie actress closer into the net being spread by county detectives. 'She is not telling all she knows about the murder,' was the statement of one deputy sheriff who has been active on this angle of the investigation. 'This actress is known to have been an intimate of the scenario writer and his wife. The three would take long trips together.' Since the desired information is not forthcoming from the movie actress, the sheriff's office hopes to get it if the scenarist and his wife can be found.
1922-02-14	...While Mr. Woolwine was talking to the visitors to his office, Detectives Cato and Cahill were following up clues uncovered several days ago and leading to the theory that a well-known drug peddler may have been the slayer of the noted film director... Several different theories of the crime were developed during the day, many supposed clues were run down, and many 'tips' were received. But as for actual progress in the baffling case, no official connected with the inquiry admitted making any. Mary Miles Minter, youthful actress who has been questioned as part of the investigation, issued the following statement, authorized by her attorneys: 'There is no person or financial sacrifice that I would not gladly make to bring the slayer of William Desmond Taylor to justice. 'Mr. Taylor was one of my best friends. His death was a great shock to me. I met Mr. Taylor first in 1919, when he became my director. I was then 17 years of age, and his inspiration, his unfailing courtesy and consideration not only to me but to all with whom he came in contact immediately won my highest admiration. 'From 1919 until the day of his death Mr. Taylor was to me the symbol of honor and manliness, an inspiration, friend, guide and counselor--the symbol of all a girl admires in a man. 'His friendship was uplifting and his advice and aid were invaluable. 'It would be nothing less than veritable ingratitude if I did not, now that he is dead, raise my voice to proclaim what he was and to repudiate those who would besmirch his character. 'I have told the authorities all that I know of both his life here and in the East. That, I fear, has been of little aid to them. 'I cannot conceive the character of a person who would voluntarily wrong Mr. Taylor or cause his death.'...
1922-02-14	Lacking real clews to explain the mystery of the murder of William Desmond Taylor, the motion-picture director, public curiosity has turned ravenously upon the private affairs of the movie actors. Not only have the innermost facts of the life of the murdered man been thrown to the winds, but every young girl who knew Taylor by sight seems to be considered legitimate prey. Private papers found in the apartments of the murdered man have been shouted from the housetops. With a bloodhound ferocity the pack-and-cry is in full pursuit of every stain in the life of everyone connected with the motion-picture industry. It seems cruel and unnecessary that the letters of young girls should be ruthlessly flung to the world to read for no other reason than the slim excuse that they were found in the house of the murdered man. There is no pretense on the part of anyone that these missives have any possible bearing upon the murder mystery. That some very young girl in the glow of a romance should write, 'I love you; I love you; I love you,' to a man old enough to be her father is no very terrible indictment. In any event, there is no reason why she should be exposed to scorn, ridicule and disgrace--just because the man to whom they were addressed happened to fall a victim to an assassin's bullet. Not only have these letters been pitilessly and mercilessly displayed to the public; but some of them have been printed in such a way as to leave the most vicious possible inferences. Against these nasty inferences the young girls in question have no defense. It is, for them, a case of 'Be damned if you do; be damned if you don't.' The only possible explanation they could make would be to lay still barer their innermost private secrets. In the opinion of The Times the public has no right to any papers or letters in this or any other case that does not have a direct and official connection with the untanglement of this mystery; unless they would, for instance, be considered proper evidence in a murder case on trial. The doctrine that every private letter and every secret of every kind found in a house where a crime has been committed should be published is a dangerous one. There are few who have not written letters, who have not, in fact, had experiences that they would shrink from seeing on the public billboards. The fact that the girl writers of the letters happen, in this case, to have been young, beautiful and world-famous does not take away their rights. Their fault was to fail to recognize that persons in the public eye must suffer from restrictions as to their conduct in private life which are not imposed upon individuals 'to fame and fortune unknown.' The Times is not impelled to protest against the procedure in this instance because those concerned happen to be connected with one of our most important industries. It is not a question of economics or business, but one of common justice. The Times has always refused to suppress news. The public is entitled to know the legitimate and relevant facts about this and all other matters of genuine public interest, even though these facts cause discomfort. But The Times does contend that to drag the bottom of the sea for every shred and putrid remnant of gossip and scandal affecting every person who had a speaking acquaintance with a murdered man is unjust, outrageous, unsafe, unethical, ungenerous--and mighty bad business.
1922-02-14	(Los Angeles)--District Attorney Woolwine today made a statement in which he deplored what he termed 'faked and fraudulent interviews' on the case, and particularly one purporting to have come from him. His statement follows: 'In the early edition of the Examiner for Monday morning there appeared on the first page an interview purporting to come from me which was never in effect given. 'This interview never took place and there is not a word of it that I have ever authorized to be printed nor did I have the slightest intimation, directly or indirectly that it would be. 'There is not a sentence that contains my exact language about anything. It is composed of some things that I have uttered in substance. There are some half truths, many absolute falsehoods. Language purported to have been uttered by me is out of whole cloth and is viciously false. 'It is certainly an outrage for any newspaper to be guilty of such a faked and fraudulent interview. 'I am informed that this fake has been telegraphed all over the United States, which magnified its iniquity.'
1922-02-14	LYNN BARS MINTER FILM. Censors Declare Against Pictures of  Persons in Taylor Case. Special to The New York Times. LYNN. Mass., Feb. 13. The Board of  Theatrical Censors in Lynn requested  today that no showing be made of a  film featuring Mary Miles Minter, which  was scheduled for the last three days of  this meet at a local theatre. The board  also requested that other films in which  actresses appear whose names have been  connected vith the death of William  Desmond Taylor be kept off the screens  of theatres in Lynn. A motion picture vith Mabel Normand  as the star, and which as contracted  for some weehs ago, as shovn yesterday, but it will be shown no more. The  action of the board folloved protests  made by persons who saw Miss Minter  in a film this evening.
1922-02-14	Devotees of the cinema have it straight from Pauline Frederick that all this fuss about the morals of Hollywood is baseless. The famous screen star, with her husband, Dr. Chas. A. Rutherford, and her mother, Mrs. L. Fredericks, arrived Tuesday from the Los Angeles suburb. With the smile that has captivated millions, the vivacious film queen asserted that it is unfair to stigmatize the profession because of one or two unfortunate circumstances. 'I never read the newspapers,' she said, 'and know nothing about this Taylor murder or the Arbuckle case. I never allow them to be discussed in my home. But I do know that I have never seen any more evidence of lax morals in Hollywood's movie colony than anywhere else.' 'You don't mean to say you never read the papers and hear all the good things they say about you and your work?' she was asked. 'Oh, that stuff is all clipped and laid before me,' she answered, 'and of course I do appreciate the nice things, but sometimes I see a real bad one, and that disheartens me for, oh such a long, long time. I wish the public could follow us around Hollywood for awhile,' she added earnestly, 'and they would never be misled by this unwarranted publicity.'
1922-02-15	Most of the folly and most of the ecstasy of the world has been written into love letters. Down Los Angeles way the sudden taking off of a motion picture director has revealed in superlative quantity the common impulse that exists to let the emotions expand under the witching stimulus of a flowing pen. One love letter is very like another; in this one thing the world changeth never. It has all been said. Dido might have held the pen of Mabel Normand in the hour she suspected Aeneas had his mind set on his famous getaway; Cleopatra might have written like the Minter girl when Antony's eye seemed to be roving a trifle free. Nothing original is to be found in love- letters, probably because there is nothing original in love. This is not astonishing. The thing that bemuses understanding is that in this day of highly-developed inventive genius no substitute has been adopted for the paper-and-pen love letter. What is disappearing ink for if not kindly to erase the follies of yesterday under the blushing second though of today? Should it not be a Medean law that all love letters are returnable to the sender by registered return mail, special delivery? Apparently the itch to write may not be appeased and the letters must be written; but must we and our children and generations yet unborn forever read and re-read the eternal secret of what one person thinks of another in that 'first fine careless rapture,' or otherwise, which is found in the love letter?
1922-02-15	After a pitched battle last night between officers and a band of suspected blackmailers and professional gunmen at College Street and North Broadway, eight men were lodged in the County jail where they will be held for investigation and subjected to a severe grilling for possible implication in the William Desmond Taylor slaying.
1922-02-15	The American public is ardent in its hero worship and quite as ruthless in destroying its idols in any walk of life. 'It elevates a man more quickly than any nation in the world, and casts him down more quickly--quite often on surmise or a mere hunch. 'This latter disposition so curiously at variance with the American tradition and ideal of justice is just now being driven home particularly to the motion picture people of Los Angeles on the heels of Billy Taylor's mysterious murder.' Such was the comment today by 'Fatty' Arbuckle on one aftermath angle of the noted picture director's assassination in his home here on the night of February 1. He was decrying certain innuendos cast against William Desmond Taylor, his life and his relationship with women screen stars whose names have featured the investigations. Arbuckle is back in his West Adams mansion after his second court ordeal in connection with the death of Virginia Rappe in San Francisco. 'It is the general inclination, when trouble happens to strike in film circles, for the thoughtless to whisper, malign and gossip and to speak with that mock sagacity of the times of 'the inside dope' and 'the low down,'' continued Arbuckle. 'This was brought out quite forcibly in my own case and has been accentuated in the case of William Taylor. That I will acquit myself I am quite sure, but poor Billy is not here to defend himself from speculations which have no basis in proven fact. 'Taylor lived as he died--a square shooter, absolutely on the level with his fellow beings, charitable and kind. His death removed from the motion picture industry one of its outstanding characters. To this hundreds who knew him best testify. 'And yet, because of that curious and pervading psychology of suspicion to which I have referred, Billy Taylor's name is in many quarters being smirched with utter disregard for the facts of his personal and professional life. 'That is far from the dominant trait of our forefathers, who held a man innocent until proven guilty. And I know the full weight of this vilification and innuendo because I was a victim of the same campaign. 'Never in history, perhaps, have men and women been so quickly elevated to prominence as have the successful folk in pictures. That is because of the millions before whom they appear via the screen almost nightly. Their names become household words. Their features widely familiar. They are virtually next door neighbor to everyone in the land. 'The man and woman who thus accepts as worthy of esteem this filmland neighbor should do himself or herself the moral honor of refusing to accept tattle and shouldershrugs in place of fact--as he undoubtedly would in the case of his respected physical neighbor.'
1922-02-15	We ought to be glad this thing happened down in Los Angeles--that is, glad that it happened in Los Angeles instead of Seattle. It was a 'big' murder, as the news boys put it, and--like all big things--we need the distance to give us a proper perspective. We were just about to despair of the movies giving us any thrills other than those in the films themselves. Fatty Arbuckle gave us a good show--while it lasted. [51] But he has gone through his second trial, and it drew so poorly that District Attorney Brady threatens positively to withdraw it after one more performance. Things were slowing up badly. California was having a rotten winter. Tourists were leaving. And then-- Action! Action! William Desmond Taylor, world's greatest movie director, British army captain, art connoisseur, traveler, dilettante, divorcee, bon vivant, occultist, et cetera, et cetera, as well as sole proprietor of the finest, best appointed, most frequently visited and most generously occupied love nest in the city of Los Angeles--William Desmond Taylor, Love Avalanche of Alvarado, [52] is found dead! Once again Los Angeles triumphed over her ancient, jealous sister. San Francisco could claim the Arbuckle affair. It was small, sordid; did not offer the element of mystery; just a plain drunk, with a killing for a chaser. Bah! In Los Angeles a real he-man bit the dust--a sure-enough lady killer, with more handkerchiefs, gloves, powder puffs and pale-and-thin lingerie in his trophy list than an Arbuckle could ever hope to bag with all the seeming advantage of superior booze and top weight. And compare the women in the case. Fatty's list of 'those present' might be the register of the Home for Dessicated, Debilitated and Flatfooted Hashers. Who remembers them? Fatty had to bait with booze for his moths in order to get them to circulate around the formless, only partly combustible hunk of tallow that was Arbuckle, in the hope that one at least might get drunk enough to fall in. Now look--if your eyes be not too dazzled--look, look at the lambent flame of Desmond Taylor. Mark that classy galaxy that moves in queenly strides around the central orb. Think you they are drawn and held by sordid things? Not so. S'love, s'love! The Arbuckle setting was one of corks, empties, cigarette butts and katzenjammers. [53] Taylor died surrounded by incense, code love notes, monogramed hankies and pink teddy-bears. [54] The sauce piquante of the Taylor affair would be a fetching dressing to pour over even the classiest of chicken served up on the silver screen.
1922-02-16	--Movie Publicity Man in Recent Interview) The Publicity Man wore a pair of gumshoes [2] and his suit was the somberest black. He walked down the alley and looked all about that nobody followed his track. He had on a mask and his cap was pulled down and you never would know it was he. He came in the back door with a soft, stealthy step, as quiet as quiet could be. He looked all about and he stole up the stairs where the dramatic editor sat. His tread was so light and his knock on the door was the quietest rat-a-tat-tat. And the editor asked what the news of the stars, for he knew there must be, more or less. The Publicity Man whispered low and he said: 'Sh-h-h! We are keeping their names from the press!' The Publicity Man had no picture or scroll or lay-out or story or such. He was mum as an oyster and still as could be with a blue pencil fast in his clutch. And the editor said: 'I will run a weird tale of the slim stars and short ones and stout.' The Publicity Man all a-tremble and pale, said: 'Oh, Editor, pray, cut it out!' The the Editor said: 'What's the matter, old boy? What's the which and the why and the how?' 'The stars want a rest,' so the other replied. 'There is too much publicity now! We have had so much stuff of their furs and their gowns and their hair and their winning red lips. Till they're simply worn out with the strain of it all and just now all they want is eclipse.' The Publicity Man gathered up all the stuff that the editor had on his hook And he looked all about and he whispered goodby with a frightened and furtive look. Then he put back his mask and he stole out the door and he dropped down a coal hole to hide. For the soul of the man was all stricken and sad, and all humbled and sore was his pride. Then he came out at dark and he gumshoed his way to the place where he wrote his weird stuff And he turned out the lights and he sat in the dark and he said: 'I'm an old bird and tough, And I've seen some of life as it comes and it goes, as much as a man can, I guess, But I never once thought in the whole of my days I'd be keeping things out of the press.'
1922-02-16	The burning love of a film idol for his wife, which first drove him into frenzies of despair and finally to murder, was whispered about the Hall of Records today as the real solution of the mystery surrounding the death of William D. Taylor. And on the strength of this story a state-wide search has been instituted for the actor, formerly associated with one of the largest film producing organizations in Southern California, and for his wife. The woman is said by the authorities to still be in the vicinity of Los Angeles. The man, it is feared, has fled. According to information in the hands of the authorities, the man in question was called to the East in connection with the production of a picture about five months ago. He was absent for two months. During that period, it is asserted, his wife, who also acts before the camera, was seen several times with Taylor. Whether or not this man, consumed by the fires of jealousy, spied upon his wife and, believing her to be infatuated with Taylor, killed him, is not publicly known. Investigators decline to discuss the case, but it is indicated that the details of the situation are in their possession and they are of sufficient importance to warrant a widespread investigation.
1922-02-16	William Davis, Mabel Normand's chauffeur, was questioned again today. He told of driving Miss Normand to the apartment court in South Alvarado street, of reaching there about 7:15, of seeing Miss Normand disappear into the court in the direction of Taylor's home, of her reappearance with Taylor after about half an hour, of her chatting with Taylor for a moment at the curb and of the actress's waving good-by as the car moved off. He also told how Henry Peavey, Taylor's butler, left the house while Miss Normand was still there, and of stopping to pass a word with him beside the automobile. This conversation, Davis said today, was brief, for as he comes from the South, he explained, it is not his habit to exchange idle gossip with Southerners of darker hue.
1922-02-16	No end of letters from cranks are pouring into the investigative offices. Police Captain Adams says it beats anything in his nineteen years' experience. He has time to read only a few of them. One writes from Oregon that he did it, and adds, 'I am leaving Portland tonight, but whether north, south, east or west I don't say. Come and find me.' All these letters are being studied on the chance that one of them might yield pay dirt, but thus far they have proved merely vexations and time wasting.
1922-02-16	Warning his audience against the 'think as I think; do as I do' fanatical minority, David Wark Griffith, moving picture producer, yesterday made a general defense of the industry in which he is such a prominent figure and pleaded for a greater tolerance at a luncheon of the Advertising Club of New York at its headquarters, 47 East Twenty-Fifth Street. Mr. Griffith did not undertake to reply specifically to the charges of the Rev. Dr. John Roach Straton, not even alluding to his attack on the stage and the films. Nor did he attempt a detailed defense of the moving picture colony at Hollywood. Mr. Griffith said, in fact, that he knew nothing about Hollywood, hadn't been there in four years and didn't know very many film people. He has known and does know women and men in the moving picture game who are 'as sweet and clean as any women in the world,' women that any of the men present would be glad to have as wives or sisters. Referring to his production of 'Intolerance,' which deals with the old witchcraft persecutions, Mr. Griffith said that he did not enjoy producing that story, but considered it a duty to do so. 'Let one, two or three start on the mad hunt and the whole pack is again heard,' continued Mr. Griffith; 'and how they hunt them down and persecute them! History tells us that nine million men and women fell victims of this dread thing. How they made them suffer! They dismembered the living, tore nails from their finger--all for religion. Yet this was not religion. 'It was the class that says 'Think as I think, do as I do,' and if you do not think as they think and do as they do off comes your head. 'This type of man is very much alive in America today. We who have a land and a Constitution bought by the blood of countless sacrifices must be on our guard lest these 'think-as-I-think-do-as-I-do' people rob us of this heritage. 'The power of the sincere fanatical minority is tremendous, and lest we watch our step law will be added to law to further circumvent our liberties. One law and then another law is put on the statute books to make people good by law--a gross, absurd impossibility. Laws that are not obeyed are disregarded until we lose respect for all laws. 'No, I don't know anything about the morals of Hollywood, but I was raised in a strict Methodist family in Kentucky. It was the strictest sort of a family. Theatres and dances were barred absolutely and I knew how good those good men and women were. I know men and women engaged in producing motion pictures that you or I would be glad to have in our families. 'This sounds like a defense of the movies. But there should be no defense. Shall we attack banks when a banker gets into the newspapers or the church when a minister gets into the newspapers? There is nothing new in finding conditions such as the papers have been telling about recently. In this morning's paper I saw that a priest had been arrested charged with the murder of his brother. A few days ago I read that the records of the Atlanta penitentiary show three minister inmates to each actor. 'Neither the actor nor the minister should be in prison. It doesn't mean anything against the religion of Christ if occasionally a minister falls from grace. The moving picture people are just the same as all the other humans who people this earth. They are just as high as the plumber, the bricklayer or the farmer and just as low as those who dream of [...] beauty and gold to their idealism. I have seen such sweet ideals, such sweet dreams in our business. This is not just talk, but the plain truth.' Mr. Griffith explained his lack of knowledge of Hollywood gossip by saying that his work occupied his time from fourteen to fifteen hours each day. Frank Feldman, president of the club, in presenting Mr. Griffith introduced him as the dean of the motion picture business and declared that if that industry had more Griffiths it would not have had many of the troubles of the last few years.
1922-02-16	FILM STARS ARE NOW EXAMINED SECRETLY Los Angeles Prosecutor says  Publicity Resulted in Some  Asking Private Hearing. TAYLOR'S YOUTH REVEALED $2,500 Is Added to Reward for  Apprehension of Slayer, Making the Total $4, 500.   Special to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Cal., Feb. 15. An  admission by District Attorney Woolwine today that his investigation of the  Villiam Desmond Taylor murder mystery s being carried on " under cover " to the extent that dozens of witnesses  are being questioned secretly was followed by reports that out of the tangled  skein of evidence he has worked out a  definite theory for the crime. Indications that Woolwine is now directing the investigation along a line to develop his theory of a motive for the  murder mere seen in the closely guarded  activities of his investigators. They mere scattered over the city on secret missions today, reporting hourly to the  District Attorney by telephone. Woolwine admitted that because of the  publicity attendant upon the appearance  of certain witnesses at the District Attorneyts office they have refused to name statements concerning the case  unless they are questioned at their  homes, or elsevhere, in private. Woolwine declined to name any of the  witnesses who have been examined in  secret, asserting that but little progress has been made in the investigation. At the same time detectives, with the  aid of a girl sweetheart in Los Angeles, have set a trap for Edward F. Sands,  former secretary of the slain man, now  sought as a suspect in the murder case. In an effort to locate Sands, the girl, whose name is withheld at the request of the authorities and who is working in the closest co-operation with them,  as written to every point where she believes he may have gone into hiding.   Agreed to "Tip"  Detectives.  Questioned soon after the murder when suspicion was first directed against  Sands, the girl agreed to " tip " the detectives as soon as she heard from him. Since the trap as set the girl has  worhed industriously vith the detectives to find some trace of Sands and to le cate him through mutual friends. Woolwine's investigators plan to question William Davis, chauffeur for Mabel Normand, for the second time. Information received by the Sheriff 's office was said to have caused Woolwine to order  that Davis be questioned again. When he made a statement to the District Attorney several days ago Davis corroborated the story of Miss Normand that she called at the Taylor home on the nlight of the murder to get a book which Taylor had promised her, and that she  left there prior to the slaying.  Charles Jones, former Chief of Police,  and now acting as a special investiga tor in the case for Woolwine, was ex pected to interviev Mrs. J. M. Berger, income tax expert, during the day. Mrs. Berger was assisting Taylor to prepare  his income tax report  for several days  before his death, and talked with him over the telephone between 5: 30 and 6:30 o'clock on the night of the murder. Mrs.  Berger has stated that her  conversation  vith Taylor over the telephone concerned his income tax report.    Says Now He can Clear Arbuckle. The San Francisco police lost interest  today in the story of Charles Carson,  retired sea captain,  that he knew of two  men whom Sands had employed to " get even " with a Los Angeles motion picture director. Carson, after telling  his story  concerning the Taylor case, declared now that he knows a man who can clear  Roscoe " Fatty " Arbuckle  of the manslaughter charge against him in connection with the death of Virginia Rappe. Investigation of Carson's story at Sands continued however. Woolwine's investigation of reports that a bootlegger delivering liquor to  the Taylor home had heard the shot and saw a woman leaving the house has shown the story to be without  foundation. The socalled " bootlegger "  was a man who denies ever having sold  liquor and who says he heard the story second  hand. A reward of $2, 500 has been offered by the Famous Players-Laskey Corporation, which employed Taylor as a director, for information resulting in the arrest and conviction of the slayer. This  offer makes the total of rewards in the  case $4,500. The theory that blackmailers may have killed Taylor as weakened today when it was discovered that reports that  Taylor drew $2,500 from the bank the day before the murder and re-deposited  it a few hours before he as killed could not be confirmed. Checking over  Taylor's bank accounts, investigators  were unable to find any trace of the $2,500. It was found, however, that Tay lor deposited $1,600, his salary for two  weeks, in the bank on the day he as  slain.  Information concerning Taylor's early life and his family has been received  from Cappoquin, Ireland, the informant  being William Coss, an old coachman,  who knew Taylor as a boy under his  real name of William Cunningham  DeaneTanner. Coss said that Taylor was born in Carlow in 1877 and had two  sisters and a brother, Dennis Deane Tanner. He said Major DeaneTanner,  is father, was very harsh to his son  William. Coss said that Major Deane-Tanner sent William to Sandhurst to train for the army, but that his son failed to pass the tests, which enraged him. One of Taylor 's sisters is dead and the other is the wife of an officer in the British Army, the old coachman said.
1922-02-16	Stern Resolve of a Moral Young Man I'll never be a movie star Though ten directors trail me; In Hollywood, the chances are, They'd either shoot or jail me. Those horrid habit-forming drugs! Those vamps, so blond and frisky! I'm safer here among the thugs, A-drinking moonshine whisky.
1922-02-17	The theory that Taylor was slain for money was revived Friday when Mrs. J. M. Berger, income tax expert, reported that the film director had a large roll of bills in his possession when she talked to him at 4 o'clock on the afternoon of the day he was murdered. W. T. Hammond, cashier at the First National Bank, where Taylor kept his accounts, said that the director made no deposit that day. When found murdered Taylor had a flat wad of bills, amounting to $70 in a pocket. Mrs. Berger thinks the roll she saw was much larger than this. Following her statement Friday the theory was advanced that Taylor was killed by a blackmailer after he had given the man the roll of bills. After the crime the slayer could have departed hastily, taking with him the money he received from Taylor, but not disturbing the money and jewelry on his person.
1922-02-17	A third of the detectives hunting for the criminal in a sensational murder case have the grippe, [13] thus winning relief from the ancient jest which represents a detective as unable to catch even a disease.
1922-02-17	SEEK WOMAN IN CAR IN TAYLOR MYSTERY Los Angeles Detectives Hunt for Girl Who Drove Through Ventura on Night of Murder. GARAGE MAN TELLS Of HER Mabel Normand 's Chauffeur Is Examined-Search for Second Deposit Box.   Special to The New York Times. Los ANGELES, Cal., Feb. 16 .-A young woman, wrapped in an evening cloak and bareheaded, who drove through Ventura, Cal., at 3 oclock in the morning after William Desmond Taylor was murdered, was sought today by detectives. Information concerning the woman, who appeared, it is said, to be fleeing from Los Angeles, was  given to the authorities by a garage man who supplied her with gasoline and oil in the early hours of the day following the slaying. "She was in evening dress and wore a cloak," the man said. " I saw her machine before she reached my garage and she was driving at a terrific speed. As she stopped I noticed that her face was drawn and pale and that her hair had been blown down by the force of wind as she drove. "Give me all the gasoline and oil my car will take," she said. "While I was filling the tank I noticed she bit at her white gloves with her teeth and showed other signs of restlessness and anxiety to be on her way. She paid me with a bill and drove off without waiting to receive her change." The man furnished the license number of the care as he remembered it and described the machine and the woman in detail. A search of the records of telegraph companies in Loss Angeles for copies of telegrams received and sent by Taylor shortly before his death was today ordered by Woolwine. Several telegrams were reported to have been found. Other investigators renewed today the search for a second safety deposit box which Taylor is believed to have had. Information furnished by Miss R. M. Berger, income tax specialist, caused the renewal of the search for a box believed to contain several thousand dollars. worth of oil stock and a considerable amount of cash. Miss Berger informed Charles Jones, former Chief of Police, who is acting as a special investigator for Woolwine, that Taylor employed her to aid him in making his income tax report and that he listed the oil stock and cash, which as yet have not been located. Corroboration of the story told by Mabel Normand, the last person who saw Taylor alive, was furnished today by her chauffeur, William Davis, when he accompanied Deputy Sheriffs to 404-B South Alvarado Street, Taylor 's home. Davis was questioned at the scene of the crime by deputies. Davis illustrated how he waited in Miss Normand 's automobile while she was inside with Taylor, how he saw Taylor and Miss Normand come out to the car and how Taylor waved to the actress as they left at 7:40 o'clock, a few minutes before the murder. The chauffeur said he spoke to Henry Peavey, Taylor 's negro valet-cook, while he was waiting for Miss Normand, who had purchased a bag of peanuts and a copy of the Police Gazette before going to the house. Peanut shells, which Davis said he swept from the automobile while Miss Normand was talking to Taylor in the house, were found in the parkway. Davis said that Taylor appeared in good humor and without sign of any fear or worry. Davis was asked if he had noticed a book in Miss Normand 's hand, when she returned to the machine. Miss Normand told Woolwine that she went to Taylor 's home to get a book which he had promised her. " She may have had a book, but I did not see it," Davis said.
1922-02-17	The Taylor murder is proving costly to practically all coast production companies at this time. Star, director and cameraman have been busily engaged in the discussion of the case each morning at a time they are scheduled to 'shoot.' It is safe to say an hour or two were wasted daily last week on all of the bigger lots as the result of the 'post mortem' the Los Angeles dailies were holding over the character of the slain man.
1922-02-18	(New York)--While Hollywood and its environs are having considerable trouble solving their recent murder murder mystery, Master Voros goes merrily on his mind-reading way down at the New Amsterdam Roof, and the management is seriously--so it asserts--considering a plan to turn him loose on the Taylor case. It appears Voros can read any one's mind by looking at the back of his neck, and he even solves make-believe murder mysteries in the same way when two or three members of the audience get their heads together and frame such a circumstance. If the young man can do this when there hasn't been any killing at all, reasons the management, how much more easily will it be for him to unearth the culprit when there has actually been a crime committed.
1922-02-18	LETTER FROM 'SANDS' OFFERS TO CLEAR UP  THE TAYLOR MURDER. Writer, Asserting He Is Man Sought, Asks Dismissal of the Other Charges. SAYS HE KNOWS SLAYER District Attorney, Replying Through the Press, Agrees to All His Conditions. SLAIN MAN WORE LOCKET it was Gift From Mabel Normand, It is said, and Was Inscribed "To My Dearest."   Los ANGELES, Feb. 17.Immunity for Edward F. Sands from prosecution on a charge of embezzlement preferred against him last August by William Desmond Taylor, murdered film director, was promised tonight by Thomas Lee Woolwine, District Attorney, provided Sands proves his innocence of the murder and can "untangle this murder mystery." Mr. Woolwine 's promise to the missing former butler-secretary was made in a letter he addressed "To Edward F. Sands, through the publishers " in answer to a letter he received and which purported to have been written by Sands. The letter which was signed "E. F. Sands," was dated Feb. 14. The writer declared he was living in Loss Angeles and inquired whether if he surrendered and established his innocence of the murder of Taylor, he would be freed of the embezzlement charge. A copy of the letter was made public by Mr. Woolwine, as follows: Los Angeles, Feb, 14, 1922. Mr Woolwine, Los Angeles, Cal.: Dear Sir: This letter will probably surprise you when you read it. I am taking this liberty to write you to make matters more easy for you. In the first place, I am Mr. Sands, although a friend of mine is writing this letter under my dictation. Mr. Woolwine, you need not look all over the world for me, for I am living right here in Los Angeles and am reading the papers every day concerning the Taylor murder. I will be frank with you, Mr Woolwine, I haventt had any peace of mind since the murder and I have come to the conclusion that the quicker this thing is settled the better off we will all be. Now, Mr. Woolwine, in the first place I did not murder Taylor, but I know who did it, but what assurance have I from you to know that you will accept my story? None. Therefore I want a guarantee from you that if I surrender myself into your hands and if I establish my innocence of the crime you will set me free. If you will do this, Mr. Woolwine,  I can untangle this murder mystery for you. You may answer me in any of the Los Angeles papers. Thank you. E. F. SANDS.   Mr. Woolwine 's reply follows: To Edward F. Sands, through the public press: I am in receipt of letter dated Feb. 14, 1922, postmarked Los Angeles, which, by its language, purports to have been dictated by you. I have no present means of knowing whether or not the letter is genuine, as I receive vast numbers of bogus communications, but I intend to treat it as genuine for the purpose of this communication. The letter states: "I did not murder Taylor but I know who did it," and inquires in substance that if you come forward and surrender yourself and establish your innocence of this crime whether or not I will set you free. The letter further states: " If you will do this, Mr. Woolwine, I can untangle this murder mystery for you. You may answer in any of the Los Angeles papers." In answer to this communication I wish to state that if Edward F. Sands will surrender himself to any of the police authorities or to me and establish to my satisfaction his innocence and give me information as to who committed this crime and untangle this murder mystery to my satisfaction as District Attorney of Los Angeles County, I will move a dismissal of the case of embezzlement now pending against him and set him free. THOMAS LEE WOOLWINE. Mr. Woolwine stated that the letter purporting to have come from Mr. Sands as postmarked Feb,. 15, but came to  his attention only today. He said that then he realized its importance in case it proved genuine, he  called a conference of polles detectives  and his own special investigators assigned to the case and that their unaulmous conclusion was that it could be  best to answer the letter, in chance  as genuine and might result in the  solving of the mystery.  Letters written by Taylor to women  friends are now sought. Attempts to  locate some letters written in reply  to the notes from to women in particular are said to have been met with  statements that the letters were "lost  or destroyed" soon after they were received. Investigators beileve, however, that a    few of his letters are in existence. Taylor's letters, it as stated, would  probably throw no new light on the  case, but possession of them is needed  to explain the letters already in District  Attorney Woolwine's safe. A new clue, which may put detectives  on the trail of the slayer. was revealed today by a Los Angeles pawnbroker, who reported that a few days before  Taylor was killed he sold a revolver  of the same calibre as that used in the  murder to a man the acted suspiclously. The name and address given  by the man then he made the purchase  were furnished by the lawnbroker, and  efforts are being made to trace him. According to the pawnbroker the man  was anxious when he bought the gun  and evaded answering questions concerning that he intended to, do with the  weapon. It became knoun today that Taylor  carried in a gold locket a picture of  Mabel Normand, a gift from her to him  inscribed "To My Dearest"  When  Taylor's body was examined after the  murder the locket as found appended  to a gold chain to vhich a gold watch,  to gold penelis, a gold knife and a  golden check protector were also attached.\
1922-02-19	Seek Taylor Murder Clue in Rival Studio;  Police Trace His Relations With Actress    LOS ANGELES, Cal., Feb. 18. The  hunt for the murderer of Willlam Desmond Taylor as taking more definite  form today vith several promising leads  being explored by the investigators. The  developments today were: 1. New evidence pointing to knowledge of the slaying by a man already  under suspicion. 2. The disappearance of a man who  answers the description of the prowler  seen at the Taylor bungalow on the  night of the murder. 3. Questioning of a group of movie  employes from one of the leading  studios by District Attorney Thomas  Lee Woolwine. The studio employes examined are from a company for which Taylor never  worked, and none of them has been  questioned before upon the murder. The  angle of the investigation upon vhich  they were questioned as their knowledge of the alleged relationship betveen Taylor and an actress of that company. The Sherifft's office was endeavoring  today to get something more on a suspect already trapped in one falsehood  and vho is believed to know the truth  about the murder. Important information about this man's past was found  by Deputy Sheriff Frank Dewar, and an  effort mill be made to break down his  first story. The man sought in another angle of  the investigation is a taxicab driver,  32 years old, who deserted the woman  the passed as his wife, and disappeared  the afternoon of the day on which Taylor was slain. The only article he took with him as his 38 calibre revolver,  a veapon similar to that which fired    the bullet that killed Taylor. In his room  were found three cartridges exactly like  the one that as fired at Taylor. They  are of a kind manufactured fifteen years  ago. The taxicab driver answered the description given by Mrs. Douglas MacLean of the man she saw leaving the  Taylor bungalow. In searching the missing man's room  detectives found a cap like that worn  by the man Mrs. MacLean saw. The  taxi driver usually wore a muffler, an  article that Mrs. MacLean noted on the  man seen by her. After he had been missing ten days  the driver went to his employer's office drew $14 that as due him and  again disappeared. He did not go again  to see the woman who passed as his  wife. It as she who reported his absence to the police. Descriptions of the  missing man mere sent broadcast by  the Police Department today. A Santa Ana rancher told the police  that on the night Of Jan. 30 he gave  a ride to two ex-service men, one of  whom threatened to get a certain Cap tain named Bill Taylor, who was a Captain in the British forces. LOS ANGELES. Feb. 8. Mabel Normand, film actress, one of the last persons who saw Taylor before he was  shot, removed from her residence in  the Wilshire district to an unnamed address today. Friends said she was seeking seclusion to get some rest, made  necessary by the stress of repeated interviews concerning the case. Official investigators said Miss Normand had given satisfactory responses  to all questions put to her, and expressed no interest concerning her removal today.
1922-02-19	One of the last interviews that William Desmond Taylor, noted director, permitted his press agent to send broadcast for publication dealt on a 'disease' called 'Filmphobia.' Taylor stated that it possesses dangerous possibilities which might easily wreck the future artistry of a director. 'Filmphobia,' said Mr. Taylor, 'comes on you after you have been directing pictures for a year or more. Its manifestations are that you gage everything by film standards; you lose your pleasure in other forms of art for their own sake. A picture director suffering from 'filmphobia,' and I speak from experience, reads a novel and sees in it only screen situations-- and misses the literary values. He sees a beautiful sunset--and immediately feels for the 'blue glass' which would translate those lambent colors into the grays, whites and black of the motion picture. The motion picture is a hard taskmaster. It is very apt to engross you to the exclusion of all other interests. When this happens you're suffering from 'filmphobia' and need a change of scenery. 'To cure himself of actual or incipient 'filmphobia' and to renew his contact with the other allied arts, every motion picture director should have at least three months away from the studio every year. And more and more they are doing it. Cecil B. De Mille is now in Europe; D. W. Griffith takes appreciable time between each effort.'
1922-02-20	America is supposedly a Democracy. It had a magnificent start, its laws being framed at a time when the world had emerged into a fair state of civilization--and yet, as Mr. Brisbane frequently points out in his masterly leading articles, the most appalling cases of injustice, which would disgrace a corrupt autocracy, seem to be continually occurring. One of the greatest is going on now. It is the hysterical, illogical attack upon the moving picture community, which has sprung forth as the aftermath of the tragic Taylor murder. My sense of 'cricket' won't let me remain silent about it any longer! I feel as I did once when I was a child, and hit a big man in the street with my little parasol, because he was beating a horse carrying a heavy load. My pen is only a tiny thing, but it is going to run on and write words to ask those of you who are good, just fellows and true citizens of a great country, to listen to me and then stop and think for yourselves. The moving picture industry is, I am told, the fifth largest in America. It employs countless carpenters, electricians, painters, plumbers, artists, draftsmen, architects, designers, writers and musicians. Probably the smallest number of its constituents are the actors and actresses--and only a fractional percentage of these are lurid figures who delight in scandalous excesses. But the whole community is being held up to the English speaking peoples of the earth as a rotten sore on the face of America! Can anything be more unjust and illogical? A mysterious murder is committed, and at once, like a flock of vultures, irresponsible reporters from the East swarm out to the Coast to get colorful news to telegraph back to their centers! They may individually be the kindest-hearted beings who would not hurt a fly--but they do not stop to think what harm they are doing to millions of their innocent countrymen and women when they spread hideous tales of dope fiends, parties and other horrors to ugly to speak of, giving the impression, culled from perhaps one isolated and probably hugely exaggerated case, that every actor and actress whom the public has grown to love and admire on the screen hides some grotesque vice in his or her palatial home, where orgies worse than those of Rome's decadence are supposed to occur nightly! NOW USE COMMON SENSE and ask yourselves, how could any business be done at all, how could pictures be made, how could work be accomplished, if even a tenth part of what is alleged were true? Dope fiends cannot come up to time every morning on the set at 9 o'clock and do a hard day's work; drunken women and men, putrid with vice, cannot register on the screen for all eyes to testify, as beautiful, fresh young boys and girls! Directors cannot, month after month and year after year, put over dramatic action and control large companies of people if they ware stupid and sodden with whisky. Use your intelligence, sharp-witted American public! And do not let scandalmongers get by with all this nonsense. You are not softies to be gulled by freakish exaggerations. Sift the thing down to probable facts, and your own intelligence will get at the truth. I am a stranger who has watched this cinema world for a year now. And they say that lookers-on see most of the game! It also is my habit to analyze and make psychological deductions, and I tell you that while it is perfectly true that there does exist a minute minority of vicious people in the business, there are hundreds and thousands of good, honest, hard-working men and women, girls and boys, children--and even animals; whose livelihood is threatened by the stamp which this injudicious attack upon the community at large may bring. So when next you--who read this--are scanning the papers of your home towns for fresh horrible details about the poor movie world, and nodding your heads over the imaginary Sodom and Gomorrah of Hollywood--try to remember that you are helping to take the bread out of the mouths of your fellow citizens, whose work has given you many hours of pleasure and relaxation and for which you should be grateful. And above all, you are lowering the prestige of your country in the eyes of the civilized world. Punish all offenders ruthlessly when offenses are proved against them. But do not stab an entire community in the back by spreading insidious scandal concerning it as a whole. I--Elinor Glyn--a stranger, who has always loved America, and realized its greatness, am appealing to you Americans to be just to your own kith and kin. Because justice and fair play are what the immortal Stars and Stripes stand for!
1922-02-20	A search was being conducted Monday for the third man, who, according to the statement of George F. Arto, was talking with Mabel Normand's chauffeur and William Desmond Taylor's valet outside the Taylor bungalow the night of the murder. William Davis, chauffeur, insists there was no third man. Arto declares just as strongly that there was. HENRY PEAVEY, THE NEGRO VALET, SAYS HE IS NOT SURE THAT A MAN MIGHT HAVE STOPPED WHILE HE WAS TALKING TO DAVIS TO ASK FOR A MATCH OR SOMETHING OF THAT SORT. Arto describes the third man as a rough looking customer. The sheriff's office attaches great importance to this point and it is believed that the mystery would be on the way to solution if this third man could be found and identified.
1922-02-20	Blonde Killed Taylor, Says Psychoanalyst (New York)--'If a woman murdered William Desmond Taylor, she was a blonde,' says Dr. Andre Tridon, eminent psychoanalyst. Dr. Tridon, interviewed at his home today on aspects of the Taylor slaying, explained: 'The adrenal gland, a small gland located above the kidneys, is the physical center of the soul-differences between blondes and brunettes. In blondes this gland has a large center and a thin covering or cortex. The center of the gland makes excretions as a result of fear, and the covering makes an excretion of anger. The blonde has more fear and less anger than the brunette. It is a simple matter of physical fact. 'In the case of a man who is shot in the back, evidently from ambush or by an unseen assailant, it is almost dead certain that the woman who did it, if it was a woman, had blonde hair and a fair complexion. A brunette, being more violent in temperament, would have faced the man she killed in order to have the violent pleasure of letting him know she was doing it. 'This does not mean that blondes are less emotional than brunettes. There is no law, physical or psychological, to regulate the emotions. I mean only that blondes are less violent than brunettes. 'The dark peoples of the earth, moved by tremendous angers and passions, are the people who use knives and like to get a close quarters with their victims when they go out to kill. 'If a brunette had committed the Taylor murder she might have used a stiletto, or knife of some kind. At any rate, she would have faced him and shot while he realized what she was doing. The brunette demands actual contact with the object of her love or hate.'
1922-02-20	UNION-RECORD A cute little miss known as Minter At foxy old guys was a squinter. An ill-advised wink Brought her close to the brink-- Now she's in for the rest of the winter.
1922-02-21	Nobody can keep a lot of fool girls with blond curls from falling in love with a man. No one can keep them from writing notes to him, if they haven't been taught that love letters are the most dangerous things in the world to sign except checks.
1922-02-21	Last year when May Allison was going to New York she dropped into my house for lunch the day before she left. 'Going to buy a lot of clothes in New York?' I asked. 'Good heavens, no. I'm going to get a chance to wear some of those I've got. You never get a chance to show off your good clothes in Hollywood,' said the blonde screen star. And that's the sad truth. I've been in New York for just a month. I've been back in Hollywood a couple of days, and it's pretty dull out here, I tell you. After the bright lights of a big city, the curfew life we lead in the famous wicked film colony is a bit difficult to take. But it's a good place to rest up in, anyway. No cabarets. No place to dance nearer than six miles. An occasional party where the piece de resistance of the evening is likely to be the good old game of consequences. Listening to Wally Reid and Wanda Hawley play duets on the saxophone and the piano. Oh, well, I can get the papers and read what some of these writers that I never heard of, never saw in Hollywood, and who probably have never been there, have to say about it. Get a thrill out of that! Hollywood--the prize 'bad town' of the West! Why, Hangtown and Bodie in the good old days when shootin' was shootin' sound like a Seventh Day Adventist Sanitarium on Saturday compared with the things you read about Hollywood. Of course I don't know anything about it. I only live and work there. And yet--and yet--just before I came away, Mrs. Wallace Reid cried on my shoulder because she was so bored--sitting home every night in front of the fire with only an occasional dinner at the Hollywood Country Club to brighten her existence. First of all, there's our hotel life, of course. We have a very famous hotel in Hollywood. The Hollywood Hotel. A ramshackle old building which has been standing sedately on its corner for years and years and years. But it has housed more famous people than most architectural palaces. It has a nice family dining room where everybody has their own table and knows the waitresses by their first names. On Thursday nights they have dances in the lobby, after rolling up the carpets. I suppose to be in the modern style of Hollywood journalism I should call them 'dance orgies', but--I just can't. I haven't a great deal of regard for the truth in literature, but I have some inhibitions. The last Thursday night we drifted up there we found all the nice old ladies from Iowa and Kansas who come out for the winter sitting around in their best black satins, ready for the fray. Anita Stewart was there, shocking every one in the place almost to death by dancing every other dance with her husband, Rudy Cameron. Jack Dillon and his wife were tripping the light fantastic, and their little boy was allowed to stay up into 10 o'clock to watch. Lila Lee had on a frock of apple green that may have been immoral, but looked charming. With her was a good looking young millionaire to whom her engagement is often reported. They did sit out quite a few dances, they did. Mae Busch, startlingly vampish in black velvet, Marguerite de la Motte, May Allison--and we all went over to the drug store on the opposite corner and had an ice cream soda between dances. I tell you, it's a wild and wearing life. Yet there, in the very heart of this place which some parasites of the industry, seeking free advertising at the expense of the hand that fed them at least scrappily for some time say should be abolished, live and work some of the greatest literary geniuses of the age. Here, with alleged vice rampant about them, with wild women and dissolute men shrieking up and down the boulevard, so they tell us, here Gertrude Atherton wrote much of her latest novel. Here Sir Gilbert Parker lived and worked. Somerset Maughm had a little quiet room under the eves where he conceived and executed some of his brilliant comedies. Elinor Glyn completed her last book in her second floor suite. Rita Welman, Mary Roberts Rinehart, Rupert Hughes--all have lived in the Hollywood Hotel. I have visited most of them there, seen them hard at work. Must we forget that sort of thing utterly when we think of Hollywood? I went to a dinner party at Charlie Chaplin's house on the hill not very long ago. It was a real movie dinner party--most all celebrities: Charlie, Sam Goldwyn, Gouverneur Morris, Rupert Hughes and his wife and May Allison and Claire Windsor. Do you know what occupied three hours at the dinner table? I dare say some of our imported scribes would lead you to believe that they carried in the cocaine on the tea tables, that we spent the time in ribald jest and risque tales that would have made Boccacio blush to hear. Well as a matter of fact, Rupert Hughes and Charlie Chaplin launched at once into the most interesting theological discussion I have ever heard--Mr. Hughes, with his immense fund of information and historical statistics; Chaplin with his wonderful intellectual conception and imaginative impressionability. They discussed religion for three hours while we all listened spellbound. If you want to be fair about Hollywood, will you remember all this? While I was in New York I went to Delmonico's for supper after the theater with some friends. Upstairs, in a private banquet room, a group of railroad officials were having a party. There were about twenty of them, and they may have had doughnuts in their pockets, but I don't think so. Anyway, the pockets bulged considerably. During the evening they had a lot of girls-- dancing girls--up there and the noise was certainly indicative of a good, rousing old time. Wine, women and song seemed to be the order of the evening. If anybody pulled a party like that in the Hollywood Hotel or in any cafe in Hollywood the place would be raided, the neighbors would call out the fire department and the whole town would be shocked to death for a week. Polly Frederick is another screen star who gives a lot of parties. Last one she gave I lost $3.75. It was a terrible reckless evening for me. I mean, that's a lot to lose at penny ante poker, isn't it? Polly does like the wild life. After working all day, getting up at 6 in the morning for her ride through the hills, she's just all ready to carouse all night. And she does like a little poker game. For years Mary Pickford has lived the life of a recluse. There was nothing else for her to do. If the film people mingle with others, if they go into society, they can't possibly feel comfortable. I went to a reception one night with Bebe Daniels--it was a wedding reception and the bride was an old friend of ours. We had known her in our schooldays before we became residents of the horrible center of vice, Hollywood. Poor old Bebe. She was stared at, talked about, eyed, talked to in the most insane manner I have ever heard in my life, until at last she grasped my arm and gasped, 'For heaven's sake, let's get out of this. I feel like an animal in the Zoo.' Yet those were good, kindly, well-behaved folk of the social strata. There is another thing that we face in Hollywood. The hangers-on. And they are not all poor ones, by any means. The worst place in Hollywood last year belonged to the good-fellow husband of a rich woman, whose place offered every inducement possible for the entertainment of guests. Swimming pool, motors, tennis court, servants, costly food and plenty of good liquor were thrown out as bait for the film folk, with whom it was his chief ambition in life to consort. A group of rich young men, attracted by the pretty faces of the film stars, hang about on the fringe of the colony, delighting to mingle on free and friendly terms with the possessors of such famous names and by their actions bringing more censure--and more justified censure--on the industry than any of those who get a pay envelope across the studio counter.
1922-02-21	The Taylor Case in Los Angeles Shows Incompetency of Police. The search--if one can call it a search--being made for the slayer of Motion Picture Director Taylor in Los Angeles is getting on the nerves of everybody, and the police should either produce the killer or turn the job of hunting for him over to competent persons. It seems as if every one who knew Taylor or could in any fashion be connected with the case has been interrogated at least a half dozen times. The police and the fame-seeking District Attorney of the California metropolis apparently have questioned persons who had no more to do with Taylor's murder than the residents of the Canary Islands. One Woolwine, District Attorney, made what he called an independent investigation, with a camera-man tagging him around and reporters in his following. Woolwine posed in the Taylor house with an assistant taking the part of the picture director--this being done to 'reconstruct the crime.' How would that help find the criminal? In their efforts the police and the Woolwine force have sent several reputable actresses into retirement, suffering from nervous prostration, and have cast some slight suspicion on a few persons who could not possibly kill another. The time has come for these Los Angeles sleuths and Woolwine and his actors to get off the job, and devote their time to whatever business may be at hand. Skilled detectives should take over the case and follow it to the end. Motion picture makers of Hollywood have raised a fund to hunt down Taylor's slayer, and they can put it to good use by dealing with a reputable detective agency and ignoring the incompetents of the police force and the District Attorney of Los Angeles.
1922-02-21	WOMAN OFFERS CLUE IN TAYLOR MYSTERY Tells of Director's Quarrel With Another Woman a Few Days Before His Death. HAD WORRIED ABOUT IT Name of New Witness Is kept Secret Denial That Negro Valet Has "Confessed."   Special to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Cal., Feb, 20 .A woman who declares she knows of a bitter quarrel between another woman and William Desmond Taylor a few days before he was murdered was summoned to the District Attorney's office today to tell her story, which was expected to furnish new clues. Precautions were taken to keep the woman witness's identity secret, as she informed Deputy Disstrict Attorney W. C. Doran that she would not appear unless she was assured that her name would not appear in  connection with the investigation. The woman told Doran that she knew both Taylor and the other woman. The quarrel, she said, occurred at Taylor's home and worried the director considerably. Wild reports that Henry Peavey, Taylor's valet, had "confessed" in Los Angeles, naming a prominent motion picture actress as the slayer, were circulated in Chicago today, according to dispatches from that city. The reports  that Peavey or any one else had "confessed " were denied by Captain of Detectives Adams and others investigating the murder. Police detectives were searching today for a negro drug addict who, they said, would be arrested on sight in connection with the investigation. Circumstances throwing suspicion on the negro, the officers said, must be explained by him before he can be eliminated as the possible slayer. The detectives explained that the negro for whom they were searching was not Henry Peavey. Tayor's valet-cook, who reports to the officers daily Investigators today endeavored to clear the discrepancies in the stories of Peavey and William Davis, chauffeur for Mabel Normand, on one hand, and George C. Arto, motion picture mechanic, on the other. Arto asserts that he saw a third man with Peavey and Davis in front of the Taylor home shortly before the murder, while Peavey and Davis declare they were alone. "There were three men," Arto said. "One was a chauffeur at the wheel of an automobile, which I suppose was Miss Norman's. On the sidewalk near  the car were two men, Peavey and another. I recognized Peavey as I had seen him a number of times previously. The third man was dark complexioned and wore a cap. As I passed I heard the name 'Taylor' spoken two or three times." Both Peavey and Davis maintain they were alone and that Arto must be mistaken. Mabel Normand was today in strict seclusion at her new home, 1,159 Foothill Boulevard, Altabena, where she moved from her West Seventh Street apartment last Friday night. Four guards have been stationed on the grounds of  the Altabena house to prevent callers from getting to the door without first stating their business.\
1922-02-21	Looks like some Hollywood headliners will soon be breadliners.
1922-02-22	An amplified statement secured yesterday by The Examiner from George F. Arto, motion picture writer, gives new facts which tend to change the whole theory of the crime as to its time element. Arto, it will be recalled, passed front of the Taylor house on the night of the murder and, as he states, saw Peavey standing on the sidewalk talking to a man of swarthy complexion--a rough looking character. This was at approximately 7 o'clock. HIS MEMORY REFRESHED BY CIRCUMSTANCES TO WHICH HIS ATTENTION HAD BEEN CALLED SINCE GIVING HIS FIRST STATEMENT, HE REMEMBERED YESTERDAY THAT HE RETURNED TO THE BUNGALOW COURT AT 7:45 O'CLOCK. HE IS POSITIVE OF THIS, HE SAID, AS HE PHONED A YOUNG WOMAN WHO LIVES NEAR THE TAYLOR BUNGALOW, ON WHOM HE WAS CALLING. HE TOLD HER IN THIS CONVERSATION THAT HE WOULD BE OVER IN FIVE MINUTES AND, LOOKING AT HIS WATCH, HE FOUND THE TIME TO BE 7:40. HE IMMEDIATELY STARTED TO WALK FROM HIS HOME AT 220 SOUTH BONNIE BRAE STREET. HE REACHED A POINT IN FRONT OF TAYLOR'S HOUSE WITHIN FIVE MINUTES. 'AT THAT TIME,' HE SAID, 'I SAW NO ONE AROUND. MISS NORMAND'S CAR HAD GONE, AND PEAVEY WAS NOT IN SIGHT.' HE WENT TO THE HOUSE OF THE YOUNG WOMAN, AND SAT IN THE FRONT ROOM NEXT TO THE WINDOW UNTIL ABOUT TEN MINUTES AFTER EIGHT. 'DURING THAT TIME,' HE DECLARED, 'I HEARD NO SHOT AND AM POSITIVE THAT I WOULD HAVE HEARD A SHOT BEEN FIRED.' Arto is familiar with firearms, having tested guns for the Savage Arms Company and would be able, he asserts, to distinguish a pistol shot from the backfire of automobiles. As close to the scene of the crime as was either Mrs. MacLean or her maid, Christina Jewett, and in a better position to hear and observe, Arto nevertheless was not attracted by any unusual noises. Hence, it is now believed possible that the murder may have been committed either before or after the time fixed by Mrs. MacLean. And District Attorney Woolwine yesterday admitted the likelihood that the man seen by Mrs. MacLean leaving Taylor's front door was Howard Fellows, the film director's chauffeur.
1922-02-22	My mental picture of Hollywood is getting to the place where I have to sit down and do a lot of remembering to be sure I'm right. When I read about the 'wild tribe of Hollywood' now under investigation I begin to sing South Sea Island lullabies and see exotic panoramas of huts in the wilderness, of groups of people living in cellar dives which the sunlight never reaches, of fantastic settings like those I used to see in the old San Francisco Chinatown. And I say to myself: 'Hollywood, my Hollywood; can you have been deceiving me all these years? Under that bright and charming exterior that I know so well, in that soul that I've been on such darn good terms with for all these years--are you really a den of iniquity?' Then I positively get the giggles. Why, it'll probably surprise you a lot to know that we actually have homes in Hollywood. Real homes. Where people live, with their kids, and have problems about heating the house, and keeping the lawn watered, and getting a cook that will stay. Florence Vidor, for instance, has a new home that would deceive the most hectic of our smut-seeking sleuths. You'd never dream it was anything but the charmingly kept, tasteful home of a southern lady. Last time I was there Florence and I were sitting in her sitting-room, satisfying our evil passions with some after-luncheon mints. Mammy, the Negro servant whom Florence brought from her home in Texas, had little Suzanne Vidor, Florence's 4-year-old daughter, down in the kitchen with hear, and when she went out to answer the telephone she told Suzanne to watch the coffee. In a minute Suzanne came dashing in and called at the top of her small voice, 'Mamma, mamma, come quick. The coffee is frowing up all over the stove.' Just tell that one the next time you want to give your friends an example of the risque jokes we tell in Hollywood. I don't think you should visit the Milton Sills home, however. It's pretty trying work, talking with Mr. and Mrs. Sills. Maybe it wouldn't exactly shock you, but it would give you an awful mental kick. They talk about the effect climate has had on the development of different races of the earth and the age of the various astronomical suns as judged by the differences in their color. Of course, Milton used to be a college professor, and that may have saved him from the vile clutches of the Hollywood monster. As to the Charles Rays--I'll hardly be able to convince you about them. The Rays' home is quite the most beautiful place I have been in. They spent more than two years selecting the furniture and the wall drapes and the works of art that fill it. They own some delicious pictures and Mrs. Ray spends about half her time between her voice and piano lessons--pretty swift pace she keeps up, too. Their butler is the best I've ever seen, in or out of the Sunday supplements. Mrs. Ray also is a very fine needle-woman. Really, being in the movies, I don't see how they move in the social set they do out there. They are quite 'in' now--Mrs. Ray is on the committee of the Children's Hospital, with all the blue blood of the town. Gets her name in the society column and everything. Of course, when I think of Lois Wilson I have just one desire in the world. To see her face when she reads what kind of a place she really lives in. Only, of course, Lois won't know what it's all about. Last summer Lois' mother and sister went over to Catalina for a few weeks and left Lois and her father alone in their white plaster house in the foothills. Lois and her father did their own cooking and used to be real devilish and toss a coin to see who washed the dishes. I went up one morning to get Lois to go down to the beach and go swimming with me. All over the house--pasted on Lois' dressing mirror, on the lamp shade, on the front door, pinned on the pillow covers--was this legend in bold, black type. 'Lois, don't forget to feed the bird.' So the worst you can say about Lois is that maybe she hasn't a very good memory. The Jack Holts are another family that--really, all joking aside, I don't believe in any town, anywhere in the country, you'll find another home like the Holts. They have three kiddies, and honestly (I hope they won't see this story) Jack just literally bores you to death telling you about them. I think they must have meant Jack Holt when they told that story about somebody liking to play horse. Because Jack uses the big blue drawing room chiefly as a race course around which he crawls on all fours with Jack Jr.-- who's getting close to his third birthday--on his back. William de Mille and his wife, Ann--the daughter, by the way of Single Tax George--live in a big old brown house, all books and a bit shabby inside. Once a week William has a class of devotees who come up there for a lecture on political economy, and Bill's idea of the way to spend all the money he makes in the movies is to conduct private political and advertising campaigns for the legislative movements he believes in. Last year he spent a small fortune advocating one such bill. Oh yes--I mustn't forget this one. Conrad Nagel is an usher in one of the biggest churches on Hollywood boulevard. You can see him there twice on Sunday, wearing a frock coat and a sweet smile. The Nagels have a baby daughter a year and a half old. Of course they can return a terrible indictment against Lila Lee--and Bebe Daniels. Lila lives at home with her mother and sister, Bebe has just bought a big house in the exclusive West Adams district, where she reigns over a bevy of grandmother, mother, aunts and such like.
1922-02-22	Astounding charges that Henry Peavey, negro servant of William D. Taylor, murdered motion-picture director, was held prisoner for nearly twelve hours in the office of the Los Angeles Examiner, and that Examiner reporters late at night took Peavey to the tomb of Taylor, where they attempted to bully and terrorize him by confronting him with a 'ghost,' were made last night by Dist.-Atty. Woolwine, who characterized the Examiner's actions as 'presumptuous, dangerous and dastardly.' The energetic denunciation of Examiner tactics by Mr. Woolwine followed a long conference between the District Attorney and William F. Eldridge, managing editor of the Examiner, who went to Mr. Woolwine's office on the eleventh floor of the Hall of Records. Mr. Eldridge was preceded in the District Attorney's office by Peavey, who related in detail the asserted offenses of the Examiner's representatives. Twelve typewritten pages comprised Peavey's statement to the District Attorney. He said that two men came to his room before noon last Sunday and asked him to come out. 'I am not doing any talking to newspaper reporters'--Peavey said he informed the pair. One of the men, he said, replied: 'Newspaper reporters? We are not newspaper reporters; we are officers from New York and we have authority to come down here and get you and have you go over your statements, and we want you to go down to the Examiner office and answer one question.' Peavey said that he asked them to tell him what question he was to be asked, but that they said they did not know, adding, he said, 'there's $1000 in it for you.' Instead of taking him direct to the Examiner office, however, he said, one of the men announced, 'It is a beautiful day and we will drive around for awhile.' He says he got into an automobile with the men and was driven through Hollywood and through the cemetery where Mr. Taylor's body lies. Returning, he says, the automobile picked up another man at the Alexandria and then proceeded to the Examiner office. Upon arriving there, according to Peavey, 'we went in and a gentleman asked me what movie man it was in Hollywood that was paying me to keep my mouth shut, and I looked at him and said, 'Nobody has ever given me a penny for anything excepting this gentleman here, who gave me $10.' ' This money, Peavey said, was handed to him during his automobile ride Sunday afternoon. Peavey told the District Attorney that he was kept waiting for some time in the Examiner office and that he asked to be permitted to get something to eat, whereupon, he stated, one of the men said, 'No, we will send out and buy you some.' He described the supper brought into the Examiner for him and said that after further questioning he was taken to Hollywood by the three Examiner reporters. He said the Examiner men referred several times to a spiritualist who would, according to his story of their assertions, cause him to talk with Mr. Taylor's spirit. His remarkable story of the appearance of the Examiner's 'ghost' and the fiasco that ensued is taken from the transcript of his testimony on file in Mr. Woolwine's office. 'They drove into the cemetery and said, 'Gee; goodness! it makes me nervous to drive into a cemetery at night. How do you feel, Henry?' I replied, 'It doesn't bother me.' They drove up to the vault where Mr. Taylor was lying. They said, 'Turn quick.' They turned the car and all the lights went out to make it dark. 'I got out of the car and walked over to the vault and just as I got there a man walked out from behind the vault with a white sheet over him and they said, 'Look! look! look! there is Taylor!'[1] 'I stood and looked at him and he commenced to make some funny noises and dropped down and got me around the feet and commenced groaning. They kept trying to make me run, and I wouldn't run, and said: ' 'What in the hell are you guys trying to make out of me anyway, a fool?' ' Peavey related that a further attempt to intimidate him was made by the Examiner last night, but that he paid no attention to his asserted tormentors. Mr. Woolwine's statement denouncing the Examiner follows: 'Henry Peavey, the negro servant of William D. Taylor, deceased, who has shown a very deep and genuine grief over the murder of Mr. Taylor, and who has at all times given the authorities every assistance in his power in their effort to unravel the mystery of the murder, and who has held himself ready to respond to repeated calls by the officers for such information as he could give, was taken from his room by a pair of conscienceless blackguards who represented themselves to be officers of the law, and held a prisoner from noon until about midnight on last Sunday. During this imprisonment, he was subjected to the most outrageous treatment. He was held for hours in the office of the Los Angeles Examiner, not even being permitted to leave the premises to get necessary food when he became hungry. 'To add to the unspeakable injustice of this high-handed procedure, he was conveyed to the cemetery by night by these two scoundrels, who first took him from his room, and another rascal who joined them, was taken to the tomb of his former employer and every effort made to bully and terrorize him. 'It should be remembered that this man, Peavey, had been subjected to the most searching examination, not only by the District Attorney's office, but by the skilled officers of the Los Angeles Police Department of many years' experience in the detection of crime. He has at all times shown the utmost anxiety and eagerness in his effort to render to the duly constituted authorities every assistance possible. Is is regrettable that the District Attorney has no jurisdiction over the offense committed by these miscreants for the false imprisonment of this witness. I have not been able as yet to ascertain their names, but if I knew them, and had such jurisdiction, they would be in jail tonight. 'It seems that this witness's only offense is that he is a simple-minded colored man, who has little knowledge of his real rights as an American citizen and can neither read nor write. This presumptuous, dangerous and dastardly interference by a newspaper with the orderly course of procedure by the duly constituted authorities, is calculated to and does so terrorize good and well-meaning people that they, for their own protection, keep secret important facts that might lead to the discovery to the perpetrators of foul crimes. Such acts are a positive menace to the people at large. 'I feel it my duty as District Attorney of Los Angeles County, to expose such vile, cowardly and unlawful practices, for the perpetrators of which every decent citizen should feel a most supreme and utter contempt.'
1922-02-22	AGAIN SEEK WOMAN IN TAYLOR KILLING Under Sheriff Returns to Theory That Jealousy Was Motive of Murder. OTHER CLUES FOLLOWED Police Seek for Questioning a Negro Who Had been at the Taylor Home With His Valet.   Special to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Cal., Feb. 21. Holding tenaciously to the theory that a woman killed William Desmond Taylor, slain film director. Under Sheriff Biscailuz today decided to question again numerous witnesses who had been summoned before. One of the first was a chauffeur who has been twice questioned by District Attorney Woolwine. It was considered a possibility that the woman who employs the chauffeur would be questioned again in connection with Biscailuz's inquiry. Officers also took up the trall of a negro named Anderson, sought for questioning. Anderson was injected into the case by Henry Peavey, Taylor's negro valet-cook. Peavey said that he met Anderson, whom he had known in St. Louis, on the street near Taylor 's home about two weeks before the murder. Anderson told Peavey he was out of work and Peavey took him to the Taylor home, where he telephoned to a friend of Taylor 's who needed a servant. Anderson obtained this place. but a week before Taylor was slain he again appeared at the Taylor home and told Peavey he had quit. "Anderson stayed at the house with me for several hours and then left. I haven 't seen him since," Peavey said. From Peavey the detectives learned that Anderson, because of his visits there, was well acquainted with Taylor's home.   Information concerning a bank account of Taylor's in New York, which was reported to Publie Administrator Bryson yesterday, was awaited today. The Guaranty Trust Company of New York informed Bryson that Taylor had deposited $7,811.52 in this bank in the Fall of 1919. The money was deposited in two instalments, one of $3,300 on Aug. 20, 1919, and the other of $4,511.52 on Oct. 7. As the account now stands there is only $18.96 to Taylor's credit. No cancelled checks showing what use of the money he withdrew from the New  York bank were found in Taylor's effects and the trust company was asked to make a full accounting immediately. The discovery of this bank account revived interest in the theory that Taylor was slain by blackmailers. It was suggested that he may have withdrawn the money to give to some one whom he feared. An examination of Taylor's account at the First National Bank in Los Angeles had disclosed that he withdrew $4,000 under the head of "cash" on one occasion. Detectives sought to learn what became of this money. Daniel O'Shea, the taxicab driver who was brought into the case because he disappeared mysteriously on the night of the murder, was completely eliminated in the investigation after being questioned at the District Attorney's office. O'Shea established a complete alibi. How Taylor sent telegrams each night to one of the two film actresses who were his most intimate women friends while she was away from Los Angeles, was told by Peavey in a new statement concerning Taylor's life shortly before he was slain. "You can' t tell me Mr. Taylor wasn't in love with this lady." Peavey said. "Why, I've seen him sit down to read and then get up and take a photograph of her and put it near him and gaze at it while he smoked. Some time ago she was in the East and every night he wrote her a telegram which I took to the office to be sent. "One night I saw her take her pictures from the wall in Mr. Taylor's house and begin cutting them up with a pair of sclssors. Mr. Taylor said: 'What's the idea?' She said:  'I guess I can cut up my own pictures if I want to.'   "Once I saw him take her in his arms and she put her arms around him and they kissed each other." Mabel Normand has recovered sufficiently from her illness, brought on by grief over the murder, to begin work on her new picture, "Susanna," according to reports at the Altadena house, where she went into seclusion last week. Al Herman, Miss Normand's director. stateed that she will start work on the picture immediately. A copy of a cablegram sent to Taylor in London by "Mabel " from Los Angeles June 26, 1921, has been found in his effects. It read: " Dearest Bill: Powder box wonderful. Sick abed pleurisy nine days. Feel better. Miss you dreadfully. All love. Mabel." CONCORD, N. C., Feb, 21. Chief of Police Talbert arrested a man here tonight suspected of being Edward F. Sands, who is wanted in connection with the killing of William Desmond Taylor. the motion picture director, in California. The man held here is said to fit closely the description of Sands. Special to The New York Times. DETROIT, Mich., Feb, 21.A prisoner here in the Wayne County jail told officials tonight he knew the identity of the slayer of William Desmond Taylor, motion picture director. Sheriff Irving J. Coffin, to whom many purported details of the murder were related, said that until word comes from Los Angeles he could not divulge the prisoner's name or the nature of his admissions.
1922-02-23	Believers in spiritual communication, delvers into the occult, and those who strive to penetrate into the realm of the unseen will be thrilled by an announcement received from Boston today that the victim of the mysterious film murder has been in verbal contact with an earthly human and that some of the purported conversation centered on the mysterious slayer. The announcement came to Los Angeles in a remarkable letter. News of the efforts of local psychics to communicate with Taylor reached a woman in Boston, and she, in her letter, states that previous to her receipt of this information she had conversed with the director's spirit. This Boston medium, who claims to discourse with spirits without the aid of the familiar 'trance' says: 'I was reared by parents of spiritualistic tendencies, so I am a natural believer in those things spiritual. I get in touch with spirits that have passed on easily, without trances. 'I have already 'had touch' with this man Taylor or Tanner. I asked him which named he preferred and he answered, 'Never mind, dear lady.' 'Then I asked him, 'Who did the killing? Do you know?' He answered, 'Of course I know. But I will not tell. Perhaps I am much to blame.' 'I asked him why he came to me and the answer was: 'I seek only rest and peace. I find it near a stranger.' 'I asked him, 'Can you show yourself to me?' and he answered, 'No, for I am naked. I am repenting.' 'I inquired if there were other souls who were not naked and he answered that some come wrapped in a glory of light as a garment. 'But I have no garment.' ' 'Why not go to those of shining aura?' I inquired and the answer was, 'Not now, presently. O, let me live awhile yet with those that walk in the flesh.' ' Local psychics are communicating further with the Boston woman, with a view to possible further alleged manifestations of Taylor's spirit.
1922-02-23	Detroit Captive Tells Taylor Murder Story;  Drug Addict, Los Angeles Police Find    DETROIT. Feb. 22. Two men and a  voman whose names are now known  to the Los Angeles police murdered  William Desmond Taylor, the movie director, according to a statement made  to Sheriff Coffin by Harry M. Fields, a  prisoner in the Wayne County jail. Sheriff Coffin said Fields told him that he drove the slayers to and from  the scene of the murder in an automobile and that he received $900 for the  job. Fields is awaiting trial on a charge  of forgery. He is said by Sheriff Coffin to have stated that the man who  paid the $900 to him changed a $1,000 bill to get the money. Sheriff Coffin telegraphed Fields's  story verbatim to the police of Los Angeles and they replied they could investigate. They asked the Sheriff to  hold Fields. On the night of the murder Fields  drove the two men and a woman to  Taylor's bungalow in Hollyvood, he  told the Sheriff, according to the latter. The trio went into the bungalow and  returned in a few moments, vhereupon  he drove them avay, the prisoner added, and continued that the plot to kill  Taylor was conceived in a "hop joint" in Los Angeles. He is quoted by the  Sheriff as saying he got the $900 on his  return to the "hop joint," after the  Taylor slaying, vith the men and the  woman. He did not know the motive  for the murder and did not know  whether the men and the woman were  paid for their part in it. He gave to  Sheriff Coffin the names of the trio. Fields also told the Sheriff the alleged    hiding place of the revolver with which  the murder was committed. This information was also sent to Los Angeles  and the police there are trying to verify  or disprove it. Special to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Feb. 22. While waiting further particulars from Detroit re garding the statement of Harry Fields  the Sheriff's office is cheching up  Fields's career here. Information has  been gained that Fields, also known as  Cohen and as Harry the Chink has been  a member of the narcotic ring and is a  convicted forger. A list of questions was sent to Detroit  to be put to the prisoner. At the same  time a resident of Sacramento, a former  "dope" peddler and addict named  James Thompson, asserted the belief  that Taylor had been slain by a hired  gunman because of his fight on the narcotic ring. The police were unable to  find the pistol where Fields said it was. District Attorney Woolwine, in a statement tonight, assailed local newspaper  men who tried to scare a story out of  Henry Peavey, Taylor's negro valet. The District Attorney said :  "He was subjected to the most outrageous treatment. He was held for  hours in the office of The Los Angeles  Examiner. He was conveyed to the  cemetery at midnight by these two  scoundrels and another rascal who  joined them; was taken to the tomb of  his former employer and every efforts  made to terrorize him." BUFFALO. Feb. 22. Harry J. Fields  as arrested here on Feb. 6 on a charge  of illegally possessing narcotic drugs.
1922-02-25	SAYS FILM ACTRESS HAD TAYLOR KILLED   Harry M. Fields, Held in Detroit,  Declares She Was One of  Four to Plot Crime. CHECKING UP ON HIS STORY Los Angeles Deputy Sheriffs Plan to  Have Cashier Who Changed  $1,000 Bill Identify Him.   DETROIT. Feb. 24 A motion-picture  actress who ranks high in the profession as one of the four persons who  plotted the murder of Willlam Desmond  Taylor, film director, according to the  story of Harry M. Fields, under arrest  here, Sheriff Irving J. Coffin of Wayne  County announced late today. The Sheriff withheld the woman's identity. It was stated also that additional evidence had been uncovered here which  served to strengthen Fields's story of  his knowledge of the crime. A search  of his effects disclosed receipts showing  he was in Los Angeles late in January. Among these was a rent receipt for a  place in Venice, Cal., where Fields has  maintained the details of Taylor's staying were arranged. Fields, according to the Sheriff, stated  that the actress was not present when  Taylor was shot and reiterated that the  only participants at the scene of the  crime were the three he describes as  Wong Lee, a Chinese, who did the shooting. Johnny Clark, a white man, and a  Jennie Moore, all of vhom mere hired  to take their parts in the murder. Authorities here have been unable to  locate a bank book which Fields is said  to have had in his possession at the time  of his arrest, bearing the name of "Sam  Coplin," an alleged allas, shoving a  deposit of $180 in Chicago, on Feb. 2,  the day after the Taylor murder. Fields has, hovever, offered the explanation that he maintained the account in Chicago for the benefit of his  daughter and made deposits by mail,  through a friend. Officers point out that  this would clear up the issue that was  raised by the supposed presence of  the suspect in Chicago the day after  he claims to have been in Los Angeles. Californla authorities have been made  acquainted with the new developments.   Special to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES. Cal., Feb. 24. While  testing the "confession", of Harry M. Fields, who is in jail at Detroit. Disstrict Attorney Woolwine began an investigation today of the story that  William Desmend Taylor fought a  "dope" gang to save a woman. a struggle which, according to the  latest theory in the case, resulted in the  murder. Woolwine acted after the announcement by Assistant United States  District Attorney Tom Green that Taylor had appealed for and obained the  aid of Federal officers in his fight on the   "narcotic ring." Detectives King and Winn visited  Green at his office and obtained from  him the complete details of how Taylor  forced with Federal officers to rescue  the woman from the  "dope" peddiers. King and Winn were then immediately  detailed to make a full investigation. Deputy Sheriffs made efforts to identify Fields as the man who changed a  $1,000 bill at the Hellman All Night and  Day Bank, Sixth and Main Streets, on  the morning of Feb. 2, the day after the  murder. Fields claimed he was paid  $1,000 for having driven Wong Lee, vith  a woman known as Jennie Moore and a  man known as Johnny Clarke, to and  from the scene of the murder. L. D. Seat, a teller at the bank, told  the officers that he changed a $1,000 bill for a man who acted suspiciously on the  morning of Feb. 2. An effort mill now be made to have the cashier identify  Fields as the man the changed the    $1,000. If this is done it could  strengthen his story of the crime. During the night, William Davis,  chauffeur for Mabel Normand, was  questioned again by Chief Deputy  Sheriff Al Manning and Deputy Sheriff Joe Nolan. Davis appeared at the  Sheriff's office by appointment and  left with Manning and Nolan. No  hint as given of the purpose of the  questioning of the chauffeur, who had  already  been questioned time and  again by Woolwine and the detectives  working on the case. Miss Mabel Normand, who was the  last known person to see Taylor alive,  was reported today to be recoverlng  from a serious attack of influenza at  Altadena, where she went to rest. Her  parents arrived from New York a few days ago and joined her there.
1922-02-25	In addition to a suggestion that it might be called Alcohollywood, Chinese opium circles may know it as Hoppywood.
1922-02-26	Lauding to the skies Hollywood and its motion-picture industry in his Los Angeles papers and reviling them in his Eastern sheets as a pesthole of iniquity and as the dregs and offscourings of the lowest type of social criminals, William Randolph Hearst has reached new heights of journalistic hypocrisy--for revenue only. No praise is too fulsome or extravagant for Heart's LOS ANGELES EXAMINER to heap upon the film industry in Los Angeles, its home. No insults are too gross or baseless to hurl at that same Los Angeles industry in Hearst's CHICAGO AMERICAN and his dozen-odd other eastern papers. The damage done to Los Angeles by the circulation of these unfounded libels is past computation. Nor has Hearst the excuse that his eastern reports are prepared at a distance by writers not in a position to get the facts. These reports have every one been written by Hearst employees in Los Angeles working out of the Los Angeles Examiner building and using the Hearst wires from this city. That they are recognized as unbridled fabrications is proven by the fact that the LOS ANGELES EXAMINER, which has to live here, has printed not a line of them.
1922-02-26	Social Requirements If one is invited to dine or to luncheon, or to tea outside the industry one is expected to have at least one original idea on who murdered Taylor. At first it was rather a shock to have someone say: 'Oh come, you know all the inside dope, tell me.' Not having had any previous experience with unraveling murder mysteries and not being a graduate of a Sherlock Holmes school it was something of a blow to be prepared to given an explanation of who killed the most talked of man in the country. To our earnest, 'Really I did not know Mr. Taylor. I have no idea who could have killed him,' we have been met with suspicious looks and a manner as if we were concealing some of the inside facts. But every one else in the motion picture industry has had the same experience. To be connected with motion pictures in any way is enough to make the layman believe one should know more than State's Attorney Woolwine and the men who are unraveling this murder mystery.
1922-02-26	SEEK TAYLOR CLUE IN SAN FRANCISCO Los Angeles Detective is Sent to Trace Telephone Call on Right of the Murder. HOPES FOR DEVELOPMENTS Fields Now Says Actress Waved Bag of Candy as Signal for the Shooting.   Special to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Feb. 25 ".-A new tail which is considered likely to develop evidence of the slayer of William Desmond Taylor was taken To today, when Police Detective Herman Cline, working under District Attorney Woolwine 's direction. was reported to be in San Franciseoo is tracing a telephone message sent by a woman on the night of the murder. The woman is said to have telephoned from Loss Angeles to a friend at a San Francisco hotel a few hours after the slaying, saying that she was "in trouble" and needed help immediately. A record of the message is reported to have been found several days ago by Cline and others at the offices of the telephone company here. According to the information obtained by Cline, the message was sent to the St. Francis Hotel. Cline 's mission was plainly for the purpose of questioning hotel employes and telephone operators in the northern City. If Cline confirms the report that the woman sent the message saying she was " in trouble," and needed help shortly after Taylor was slain. Woolwine will have evidence, it is believed, that will bring startling developments in his investigation. The woman said to have sent the message is one of the witnesses already questioned in the investigation by the District Attorney. Miss Mabel Normand, whose physicians say she is ill with infiuenza at her temporary home in Altadena, was reported to be " somewhat improved" in condition today. The physicians said that while her condition is not dangerous, it demands constant care and attention, and that she has yet a trying period before her recovery They discounted reports from the Mack Sennett Studios that Miss Normand has only a "slight cold," and declared that her condition requires absolute rest and quiet. While the story told by Harry M. Fields in Detroit has practically been discarded because of its improbabilities. the theory that Taylor was slain by "done" peddlers, whom he fought to save a woman, is still getting serious consideration in the investigation. Detectives King and Winn reported today to Woolwine after investigating to learn the history of Taylor 's fight against the narcctie gang. Their investigation was made on the strength of the statement by Assistant united States Attorney Green that Taylor had appealed for and obtained the aid of, Federal officersin fighting the gang eighteen months ago, mentioning that he was endeavoring to save a woman in whom he was " deeply interested, and who, he said, was paying as high as $2,000 a month to the peddlers. The detectives are believed to have is established as true the report that Tayfor administered a severe beating to one is of the peddlers several months ago, kicking him out of his house.   Says Developments Are Likely. SAN FRANCISCO, Cal., Feb, 28.Herman Cline, Los Angeles police detective sergeant, conferred today with Captain of Detectives Duncan Matheson regarding certain phases of the William Desmond Taylor murder case that have come to light in this city Cline told Captain Matheson that he was in San Francisco " under sealed orders " and expected further advices from his surperiors. Police Detective Henry Kalmbach was  detailed to assist Cline in his investigations here and the two left the Hall of justice together. Matheson announced that " developments were like ly. DETROIT Mich., Feb. 25-Asserting he had previously given fictitious names in identifying the persons he claimed were implicated in the murder of William Desmond Taylor Loss Angeles film director Harry M. Fields, held here a awaitingesentence for forgery told authorities today he would furnish information that would clear up the crimes if promised partial immunity by the California officials. "I expect to do a prison stretch for my part in this mess, but I dont want  to hang," Fields was quoted as saying. Fields was subjected today to another cross-examination by Lieutenants of Dolive Marlin and Smith and Sheriff trying J. Coffin, and made two changes in his story of the shooting of Taylor, but continued to insist he dreve the care used by the slayers and was paid $1,000. He said today, according to the investigators, that a prominent motion) picture actress, who he said was one of the quartet that planned the killing, preceded the other three participants to the Taylor home with the understanding that she was to give the signal when the opportune moment arrived to do the shooting and escape. When the care containing the Chinese or is the white man and woman, who he said were the others implieated, arrived at the Taylor bungalow Fields is said to have declared that the actress emerge day is from the house and, standing in the shadow of the porch, waved a Bag of is candy. The two men immediately left is the automobile and a few seconds later Fields heard a shot, according to his is purported statement. The men stepped from a window of the house and reI entered the care, the investigators said he told them. In the meanwhile, the actress who had given the signal, disappeared. Fields was previously said to have day officers that the actress implicated in the killing was not at the scene. After, the shooting Fields, it is claimed, said he drove back to the other three and received his money He left Los Angeles that night, officers said he told them, although he prewiously had asserted he stayed there est two days. When Fields was questioned as to his reason for giving fictious names in describing the killing, officers said he told them " they were pressing me hard for names and I had to say something." Fields is to be sentenced here next week on the forgery charge to which he recently pleaded guilty.
1922-02-27	It was revealed yesterday that Detective Sergeant Tom Ziegler, first officer to arrive at the scene of the crime, found among Taylor's effects several checks bearing the director's signature and not filled out and one made to Edward F. Sands for $950. This, it is believed, was a forgery. The others were to be used by Sands during Taylor's absence in Europe for payment of household bills. The $950 check was never cashed. The conclusion is that Sands was trying his hand at forgery. Although the entire country has been circularized for this man, who is believed by many of the officers to be the murderer, no trace of him has been found. Reports that he is in Mexico have never been verified. .....$1000 REWARD will be paid by The Examiner for information furnished exclusively to this office that will lead to the arrest and conviction of the slayer of William Desmond Taylor. $500 will be paid by The Examiner for exclusive information as to the whereabouts of Edward F. Sands. Call City Editor of Examiner, Pico 4000.
1922-02-27	Harry M. Fields, the man under arrest in Detroit and exploited in the last few days as one of the slayers of Taylor, yesterday took his place in the 'confession hall of defame.' Fields was finally eliminated by dispatches from Indianapolis stating that Guy Broughton, Federal narcotic agent there, arrested Fields in Buffalo, N.Y., February 2, the day after Taylor was killed, and turned him over to the Detroit police. Fields was taken into custody on a drug-peddling charge. The Federal officers expressed an opinion that Fields indulged in a little too much of his own merchandise.
1922-02-27	REVERT TO SANDS IN TAYLOR MURDER Los Angeles Investigators, Other Clues Failing, Turn to him for Solution. TO PUSH NATIONWIDE HUNT Bulletin With Photograph and Full Description Will Be sent Throughout Country.   Los ANGELES, Cal., Feb, 2 .-With the failing of the other ciues in the William Desmond Taylor murder mystery large police bulletins with a deseription of Edward F. Sands, former employe of Taylor will be sent throughout the country in the hope that his arrest, which has been sought since the slaying, may aid in solving the film director 's murder. Detective Sergeant Herman Cline, returning late today from San Francisco, declared his mission had been futile. The supposed clue on which he was working was among the last, and the failure of it to reveal anything brought renewed determination to find Sands, either to eliminate him from the case or to solve the crime. One of the original investigators in the case said tonight that the countrywide distribution of bulletins earrying a complete description of Sands and his photograph will be pressed today The Los Angeles Police Department has issued a special bulletin concerning Sands, and the police plan to send this information to every Police Department in the country. Mr. Cline 's mission to San Francisco was to check up a telephone call supposed to have been sent from Los Angeles to San Francisco on the night of the slaying and before the body was discovered. The woman sending this call has come to the attention of the authorities and she was reported to have told her San Francisco friend that she was " in trouble." A check of the calls recorded in Los Angeles was made by Charles A. Jones, former Chief of Police, who has been retained by motion picture interests to said in the case. Mr. Cline checked the San Francisco end. He visited not only the hotel at which the friend was reported to have been staying, but also all the other prominent hotels. He found nothing, he said. that will in any way aid the investigation. Sheriff deputies have worked along other clues involving telegrams, it became known today. They made public the following telegram which they said had been filed for transmission in a Hollywood telegraph office at 10 o'clock the morning of Feb. 2, a litle more than two hours after Taylor's body was found: "Mrs. Georgia Freeman, shipping point, Stamford, Conn. " Pete Tanner fatally shot behind right ear in his apartment this morning. ask Ethel Daisy if I can do anything. Should I send flowers in Ethel Daisy's name. Consternation among movie colony. No details available yet. "MARION."   The officers stated they had obtained from Mrs. Marion Graham, a division manager for a Hollywood publication. admission she had sent the telegram and that she had known Taylor in New York under the name of Tanner, when his daughter, Ethel Daisy, was a year old. She said when she first met him in Hollywood he had denied he was Tanner, but later admitted it. Under Sheriff Biscailuz admitted today that the men working out of Sheriff Traeger 's office were almost at the end of their clues. District Attorney Woolwine, who has been aiding the inquiry. declared that nothing definite has thus far developed. The Police Department has a similar report. Because of the failure of the many "tips," "clues" and the recent "confession," some of the investigators have reverted to their original belief that Sands may hold the solution of the case Some of the very few positive ciues in the investigation have been linked somewhat definitely with Sands and despite the offer of $3,500 reward for a solution of the mystery and the nationwide appeal to find Sands, nothing of him has been learned since the slaying, more than three weeks ago. Sands is now a fugitive from justice on an embezzlement warrant and is accused of twice robbing his employer, the last robbery occurring about two months before the shooting. Aside from the slender chain of circumstances concerning Sands, the investigation is almost at the same point it was when Taylor 's body was discovered, shot through the back, in his bachelor apartments on South Alvarado Street.   Says Fields Was in Buffalo Feb. 2. INDIANAPOLIS, And., Feb, 2 .Guy Broughton, a Federal narcotic agent of this district, said tonight that Harry M. Fields, who is under arrest in Detroit, and who professes to have driven an automobile that carried the slayer of William Desmond Taylor in Los Angeles, Cal., Feb, I, could not have been in Los Angeles on that day. Broughton said he arrested Fields in Buffalo, N.Y., Feb. 2, one day after the slaying. Broughton said Fields was taken into custody on a drug "peddling" charge and later turned over to Detroit authorities, where he was wanted for passing worthless checks. Broughton expressed the opinion Fields 's story was a fabrication, picked up from details the man had read in newspapers, told in an effort to get out of his present trouble.
1922-02-28	Mayor Cryer was placidly cutting open his mail this morning when he came to an envelope dated from Omaha, Nebraska. He was somewhat nonplussed when he read the following letter: 'The report published in certain papers throughout the country stating that I have predicted the destruction of Los Angeles, is absolutely false. 'I have never mentioned anything of the kind. I do not predict world events with which I am not in personal contact.' After making this modest assertion denying that she has made any evil predictions concerning Los Angeles, she signs herself as Eugene Dennis, 'known as the 'Wonder Girl.' ' And to prove that she is the one and only 'wonder girl' she attached a statement from David P. Abbott, who says that he is 'the gentleman conducting the investigation of Miss Dennis for the purpose of making a report to the American Psychical Institute and Laboratory of New York City.'
1922-02-28	Somebody seems to be pulling the first syllable of his name over the eyes of Attorney Woolwine, of Los Angeles.
1922-02-28	(Los Angeles)--Underwood said Taylor lived in constant terror, apparently of unseen enemies who menaced him. According to Underwood, he met Sands at Seventh and Broadway on the day following the death of Taylor. 'Well, I'm heading south. I probably won't see you again,' Underwood says Sands told him. 'Where are you going?' Underwood says he asked. 'Probably Mexico--possibly South America,' Sands replied, according to Underwood. Underwood said: 'Some weeks previous to the murder I was sitting alone in a downtown cafe when Taylor and a party of friends entered and took the table next to mine. He was in a jovial mood, and within the next thirty minutes, observing that I was alone, invited me to join his group. I accepted. 'In the party were a number of women I recognized as having seen on the motion picture screen--women that were known the world over as actresses of the first degree. I will not give their names, because I do not wish to involve any of them in this unpleasant affair. 'These same women, however, I saw on numerous occasions when I was a guest at the Taylor bungalow on Alvarado. I have my own theory regarding the slaying and the connection of these people with it, but as to this angle I have nothing to say.'
1922-03-01	Harry M. Fields, the opium smoker who named himself an accomplice in the slaying of William Desmond Taylor and who adorned the story of the Los Angeles shooting with a Chinese tong fighter, a paper bag of candy, a $1,000 bank note, a prominent picture actress, and a pearl-handled revolver, will be reduced from the notorious place he claimed as driver of the death car to the ignominy of a penal cell at Jackson Prison. With his colorful story fading like a puff of drugged smoke from his own pipe, Fields came before Judge William M. Heston in Recorder's Court Tuesday and was sentenced to serve for from three to 10 years for obtaining money under false pretenses. This charge, to which the drug addict had pleaded guilty before he made his 'revelations' of the tragedy in Los Angeles, was the result of a series of worthless checks which he passed on Detroit department stores and restaurants early in 1921. Almost coincident with the disposition of Fields' case, disclosures were made by his cell-mates at the County Jail which reveal that he had a motive for his story which make it more than the un-premeditated figment of a drug- tortured mind. Fields hoped his narrative would take him to Los Angeles and free him from the charge here, his fellow prisoners say. He expected the story would bring him a trip to California. He declared that once in Los Angeles he would be immediately able to establish that he knew nothing at all of the Taylor mystery and that he would then be free. When his description of the ride to Taylor's home first appeared in the newspapers, Fields became greatly excited, his fellow-prisoners say. He ran back and forth in the cell block, holding the papers high and shouting that he would certainly go to Los Angeles and escape the waiting sentence here. When Judge Heston ordered him to Jackson Tuesday, Fields paled and he turned and walked slowly to the court cell without speaking.
1922-03-01	Uniformed officers were detailed to guard the home of Mrs. John Rupp, 1836 1/2 West Washington Street, last night when she appealed for protection from members of a gang whom she accused yesterday of complicity in the slaying of William Desmond Taylor, film director. Following her recital of an amazing story concerning her asserted knowledge of the murder, in which she named six men now in jail, she stated that other members of the gang as yet uncaught would attempt to kill her. While the six arrested at her home early yesterday morning by Wilshire police were being held incommunicado at Central Police Station, Mrs. Rupp made a detailed statement of her information in the District Attorney's office to Detective Sergeants Edward King and Wynn. The statement was taken by a shorthand reporter. After checking certain phases of her story the officers stated that 'It looked good and provided perhaps the most important lead uncovered to date.' The suspects, who are being held for the time being on suspicion of robbery, are asserted by her to have bootlegged liquor to Mr. Taylor, that two in particular informed her on the day before the murder that they had quarreled with the director over his refusal to pay them for a delivery, and in her presence threatened to kill him. She named one of the men as the probable slayer... The six men held in jail will be questioned singly today. At a late hour last night none of the men had been grilled by police. One outstanding detail of the charges made by Mrs. Rupp against them is that she confided to another woman on February 2 that she believed she knew who had killed Mr. Taylor. This woman yesterday confirmed the report that Mrs. Rupp had made this remark. The six men held incomunicado at Central station are William East, 36 years old; Walter Kirby, 23, John Herkey, 25; Ray Lynch, 26; George Calvert, 25, and Harry Amorheim, 27. They were arrested at Mrs. Rupp's home on West Washington Street, where, she stated, she served as their housekeeper. Mrs. Rupp's story, if it is authentic, has provided the investigators for the first time with a motive for the slaying of William Desmond Taylor, a crime of a most mysterious character which has aroused interest in two continents. Her story is that of 'a woman scorned,' relating that one of the men now held prisoner and with whom she had been on very friendly terms, had thrown her aside for another woman. The men, she said, have been in hiding since the day Mr. Taylor's body was discovered. The men, she asserted, had sold several consignments of liquor to Mr. Taylor, which had been represented to him as bonded liquor. The last consignment proved to be only bootleg liquor which Mr. Taylor is said to have refused to accept, this act of his having aroused the ire of illicit dealers. Mrs. Rupp declared she became cognizant of their activities and possible knowledge of the murder when one night two of the men returned to her home, where they were residing also, and entered into an altercation, during which she said she heard of a vengeance plot to kill somebody. Later, she added, these two men declared the person previously mentioned had double-crossed them, following which statement, she continued, the plan to kill him was told to her. Mrs. Rupp said she accused them of killing Mr. Taylor, following the murder, and was told: 'My -----, don't mention that.' 'The Taylor murder mystery is solved if Mrs. Rupp is telling the truth,' Detective Sergeant Herman Cline, commander of the newly created police homicide squad, declared last night...
1922-03-01	HINTS AT SOLUTION OF TAYLOR MURDER Woman's Story, Causing Arrest of Six Men, lmpresses Loss Angeles Police. SAYS SHE HEARD THREATS Directly Accuses Two of Band, Said to Be Drug and Rum Vendors, of the Slaying.   LOS ANGELES, Feb. 28 .-The mystery of the murder of William Desmond Taylor, film director, " is solved, if the story told by Mrs. John Rupp in connection with the arrest here today of six drug peddlers is correct, Detective Sergeant Herman Cline, one of the police squad assigned to-the case, declared tonight. When Sergeant Cline, head of the police homicide squad, made his statement. Mrs. Rupp, who told the police she had "kept house" for the men, had been rigidly questioned by two detectives of the District Attorney's office. A detective attached to the District Attorney's office said officers would pay another visit to Mabel Normand, film actress, who is recovering from what her physician recently declared was a severe attack of influenza and neryous breakdown. The six men in custody were caught in a paid at Mrs. Rupps home. They gave their names and ages as William East, at: Walter Kirby, 28: John Herkey, 28 : Bay Lynch, 28: George Calvert, 28. and Harry Amorheim, by. Police were holding them incommunicado tonight. According to the police, Mrs. Rupp directly charged two of the men with the murder of Taylor. The officers quoted her as declaring Kirby and Calvert had made threats against Taylor in her presence, asserting that the director had " injured their business." She declared they showed neryousness the night of Feb, l, when Taylor was murdered, were away from her house for a time early that night, and, returning, " stayed up all night. Shortly before Taylor was slamn, according to the police restatement of Mrs. Rupps story two of the six men returned to her home, and told her: "He doublercrossed us; wouldn't pay for the booze we brought him. We're going to kill him."   The name of the director was not spoken, however, it was stated. Mrs. Rupp said she dismissed the threat from her mind until the day after the murder. Then, she said, while she and the two men were at dinner, she suddenly cried out to one of them: You are the man who killed Taylor. He turned perfectly white and sagged in his chair," Mrs. "Rupp was quoted. Then he said: Good God! Don't say that again. Don't ever mention that again. I never did," Mrs. Rupp was said to have continued, "but during the next two weeks one man would frequently come running into the house and hide in his room. Once he said to me, 'The bulls are after me. Help me hide.'" The arrests today revived the theory brought forward several times, and as often said to have been discarded, that Taylor was slain because of his alleged activities against a narcotic ring. It was even declared that the officers had practically proved the director once engaged in a physical encounter with a drug peddler he caught negotiating with an actress friend of Taylor.
1922-03-01	Making public appearances is one of those things like eating drumsticks with a fork--in time you get used to it, but you never really like it. The object of public appearances, which are made in motion picture theaters of course, is to give everybody a brotherly interest in you and your welfare, so that they will henceforth mob the theaters at which your pictures appear, thereby greatly increasing the shekels in the Box Office. This doesn't increase your salary any, but it makes the exhibitors and the exchange men and the producers happy and it's very gratifying to make so many people happy. I have been publicly appearing for many weeks. I have held up the show in some hundreds of movie palaces. I have made three round trips across the continent in five months and I know every Pullman porter in America by his first name and his favorite dice point. I hope I am not going to hurt anybody's feelings, either private or civic, by disserting a bit about my experiences. It's as natural to write about your travels as it is to talk about your troubles. Everybody was very good and kind and patient with me and I enjoyed it all so much as far as they were concerned--it was myself I didn't enjoy. Inside my own studio I have to objection to registering anything from the emotions of the gallows to receiving custard pie amidnose. In the Dark Ages, before pictures, I have even endeavored so to disport myself upon the stage that nobody would thrown anything larger at me than an egg. But all this in the 'persona dramatis.' To stand up before hundreds of dear, good, kind, well-intentioned souls animated only by perfectly natural curiosity and the ordinary human skepticism and suspicion which declares that no man is perfect and wants to see its theory upheld; to make speeches to enterprising young business men who know more about what I am talking about than I do; to pass through Texas shaking hands with the entire Democratic party and wonder how long it'll be before they found out that I am a Republican and cast my first vote for Grant; to meet all those lovely, local peaches and realize that my stay in Utah must be so brief--indeed, there were moments when I wished I had taken my dear old grandmother's advice and earned an honest living. As I take my typewriter in my lap, I seem to hear in the distance the raucous and cynical voice of the train announcer singsonging our schedule-- 'All aboard for Birmingham, Atlanta, Dallas, Austin, Beaumont, Houston, Forth Worth, San Antonio, El Paso, Kansas City, Hutchinson, Wichita, Chattanooga, Knoxville, Nashville, Ashville, Louisville, Cleveland, Detroit, New Orleans, Chicago, Washington, Philadelphia and New York.' My wife says I can say it in my sleep. Well, there are worse things a man can say. Of course when you are making a tour like that you encounter a lot of general phenomena. There were ten thousand people who wanted my autograph which I thought was very nice of them. I hope they won't show it to the children, because it might lead them astray. It's so much better in later life if people can read your handwriting. Not that it would have done me much good. My wife doesn't believe in a joint bank account. One hundred thousand people wanted autographed photographs. We didn't have to pay nearly as much excess baggage going back. And ten million wanted to know the best way to get into the movies. Some day a clever young criminal lawyer is going to invent a new insanity defense for murder and call it dementia movia picturibus. I did my best. Now everytime anybody comes to the studio I run and hide the way I used to in New York in the days when my only callers were bill collectors. I am afraid it is one of those nice, persevering mothers, with daughters who look exactly like Mary Pickford, who has come to keep my promise that if she ever came to California she must look me up and I'd see what I could do. I am not given to rash promises, but you have no idea how difficult it is to escape mothers with daughters who look like Mary Pickford without incriminating yourself. I live in daily dread that one will appear when my wife is around and confronting me with a deadly stare declaim, 'Remember your promise to my daughter' and I shall look and act like the hero in a bedroom farce. Then next there were the banquets and the climate. I had always understood that Los Angeles had a monopoly on climate as a civic proposition. They even kid us about it back east. Well, let me tell you there isn't a city I visited where they can't sing you a cantatta about the climate. I can't understand why so many people move to Southern California. Often it would be at 104 when I got up to speak. Not but what 104 is a very nice heat if you like heat, and I do. But of course I'd be pitifully nervous because I am not used to making speeches and that would sometimes cause me to mop my brow. A fatal error. My audience generally decided I was trying to razz their climate. So I learned to begin my little piece something like this-- 'I suppose,' I'd say, smiling brightly, 'I suppose you think I'm warm. But I'm not really. I'm merely a little nervous at appearing before this select and critical audience. Why, your climate here is perfect, wonderful, ideal. And as for heat, don't forget that I came through Yuma on my way east. Nothing would ever seem hot after Yuma. That may appear a broad statement, but it isn't. Why, in Yuma, we saw a dog chasing a cat down the street and they were both walking.' Usually it went well. If it didn't we all got cooled off. One thing was very trying to my sensitive spirit. In every city the people were kind enough to welcome me at the station. Sometimes they even had out the band and a parade with automobiles with my name on and everything. Also my business manager, Bogart Rogers, had about as much delicacy as Barnum and Baileys in letting everybody know I was in town. As I'd walk along the street about every other person I passed would say, 'There goes that MacLean now.' Strange how the use of such a little word as 'that' can make you jump. [2] Speaking of the heat, in Fort Worth the heat and I clashed for a brief round and I must admit that the heat came off best--that is, I actually came off but it was the heat that was responsible. We had been breakfasting at the hotel--a nice, southern breakfast. For myself, I like a regular breakfast--none of this tea and toast, coffee and fruit stuff in mine. I may be a movie actor, but I've got the labor point of view on breakfast. Thus I had been long over my meal. When I arose I heard a faint, sad sound--almost a sob--suggesting of the parting with something dear. It was. I had. Looking down, I discovered that I had left upon the chair the seat of my trousers. It was an old suit and t'was not the loss of the seat of my trousers so much as the manner of its loss that distressed me. I would gladly have parted with it under more auspicious circumstances. As it was, there was nothing left to do but wrap a newspaper about the middle portion of my anatomy, and dash from the dining room, my wife and Mr. Rogers forming a sort of rear guard, if I do say so. At Hutchinson, too, I was barely saved from disaster. They gave me a banquet at Hutchinson. It was the sort of banquet they probably thought I was used to, after seeing the kind we use in the movies. But I wasn't. The table was arranged in a giant horseshoe, beautifully decorated and arranged. My place was at the head. I was as solitary and conspicuous as a small boy's missing tooth. Beside me sat the mayor of Hutchinson. Have you ever eaten, dear readers, when you know that several hundred pairs of eyes were fixed on your Adam's apple? You try to smile and chew and the same time and probably resemble nothing so much as a hyena with a bone. It was also mighty tough on the mayor. He had never been a movie star and I had never been a mayor. We couldn't find a point of contact. Just then, in trying to reach for the bread, smile at a pretty lady down the table and swallow a large piece of steak. I upset the salt. I thought it was a faux pas. In reality it was an act of providence. The mayor understood me to have evinced an interest in salt. He began to talk. It seems that all the salt in the world comes from Hutchinson, Kansas. The mayor was one of the most interesting, entertaining, and well-informed men I've ever talked to. I forgot that I was supposed to be on exhibition and I had the time of my life. And so everybody else forgot it and we all had a good time. Young Rogers was a great help to me in one way. He's a bright boy and he used to be a captain in the British aviation. He moves fast, but his methods are effective. I must admit that there were times when I bid fair to destroy the reputation of myself, my art and what is more important, my director general, Thomas H. Ince. I'd peter out completely. My best behavior and my company manners and my personal-appearance-try-to-make- everybody-love-you line of action, would seem to desert me completely. When Rogers saw I was in trouble, saying the wrong things or not saying anything or agreeing to buy Central Park or the city hall, he'd canter up, pulling up his cuff as he came. He'd burst in upon us, holding out his wrist watch and cry, 'Mr. MacLean, do you know what time it is?' I'd drag out my Ingersoll and we'd compare them and I'd say breathlessly, 'No! It isn't! It can't be! Why, we've only got ten minutes. Good-by--you'll excuse us--only got ten minutes--' and we'd vanish still talking and I'd have a chance to get my breath and my wits and think up a couple of bright things to say. While we were in Washington, we climbed the Monument. Climbed up in the elevator and down on our legs. We wanted to walk down. We thought it would be good exercise. Of course, you may think we got a little scary going up in that elevator. It is a long way to go in an elevator, isn't it? You smile and whistle and remind yourself that thousands of people have done this same thing before and thousands more will do it again and that there aren't many corpses apparent. It's so safe. Still, we walked down. I was in bed for three days afterwards because I couldn't walk anywhere else. When I got up, I visited the Treasury and they let me hold $160,000,000 in cash in my hands. I had to go to bed again after that. We saw the Capitol with Chic Sale. He told us a lot of things about it we'd never heard. I don't expect anybody else ever had either. In passing I should like to mention one little incident that happened in Birmingham. A young man rang me at my hotel and said, 'Mr. MacLean, this is Charles Lee Porter. You may have heard of me. I know you're very busy, but I thought you might be glad to spare me a few moments of your time. There are a number of things I'd like to talk with you about.' Now a couple of things had happened on this trip that had made me wary and shy about claiming even a little quiet for myself. In Atlanta, Rogers went ahead to stir up a little popular sentiment. When he got to the hotel an unknown and rather casual sort of bird drifted up and in and absent-minded way inquired, 'You Doug MacLean's press agent?' Rogers admitted he was something like that. 'That so,' said the bird, 'When's Doug get in?' I presume I will be pardoned for mentioning that occasionally in every community one runs up against what are commonly termed nuts--also pests. We had been approached by every known variety, from the innocent old lady who wanted us to look up her cousin who lived in California to the smooth young man who wanted us to buy a diamond necklace. The movie is always fair game, you know. Consequently, in order that we might have the time and attention to give to the worthy and kind admirers who had done so much to make our trip a success, we had to discriminate. So Rogers said, 'What'd you want to know for? May I have your name?' The man said, 'Yep. My name's Yates. I'm a cousin o' his.' I hadn't mentioned I had any cousins in Altanta. You know how careless you can be about relations. So Rogers gave him a very high grade stare and said, 'Mr. MacLean is going to be very busy in Atlanta. Good-by.' Then in Kansas City, a fellow called up on the phone so early in the morning I wasn't much more than a moron yet, and his voice sounded like a man in Asheville that wanted me to endorse some new kind of depilatory, so I told him I was Rogers and MacLean wouldn't be in for a couple of days. Then he said, 'Well, this is Mr. X. I'm a friend of Mr. Ince's and Mr. Ince wired me to look MacLean up and take him around.' I fainted. But, worse still, in ten minutes Rogers came dashing in and says, 'I just met Mr. X. in the lobby and when I told him who I was he said 'What kind of a damn fool joke is this anyway?' and beat it.' It took us two days to square that. Of course there were a few sad moments on that trip. One little old lady in Ashville came to the theater in a wheel chair. She'd been an invalid for years but she said she liked my pictures because they were always nice and clean and she wanted to see if I was a good, clean boy myself. I felt about as big as a fly on Babe Ruth's hand. I am whole-heartedly grateful for all the wonderful kindness shown to me. I never before thoroughly appreciated America, Americans, American hospitality and American humor. It can't be beat.
1922-03-02	ACTOR OF PROMINENCE SOUGHT IN TAYLOR CASE  Police Refuse to Give His Name  Prior to Arrest Question Woman Who Accused Six.   LOS ANGELES. March 1. Arrest of  a seventh man, which, if effected, they  said, could bring into custody a motion picture actor of some prominence,  as predicted tonight by local officials in connection with their investigation of the murder of William Desmond Taylor, motion picture director. ''They said the man was believed to have  been in the confidence of peddlers of  drugs and liquor. The officers declined to make his name public prior to  the arrest. Six men already are under arrest as a result of disclosures made yesterday by Mrs. John Rupp, which it was  indicated, also form the basis of the  prospective arrest. Mrs. Rupp today made a sworn statement to the police of her story of the  murder of Taylor. Mrs. Rupp's statement definitely asserted that Rodney Calvert, one of the  six in custody, said in her presence that  he could shoot Taylor if the latter carrried out a purported threat to report the  sale to him of synthetic liquor under the  guise of bonded goods. Detectives were put to work checking  up the various angles of the case, and  it was stated at Police Headquarters  that the woman's story had stood preliminary investigation. The police also were endeavoring to  learn something of the records of the  six men.   
1922-03-02	...A new arrest in the William D. Taylor murder investigation is imminent as the result of information which confirms certain phases relating to the arrest of six men Tuesday morning. The new suspect is said to be a motion picture actor of some standing and to have been the confidante of several clever criminals, two of whom were arrested several months ago by Federal agents. The six men held in the city jail on suspicion of robbery, who are asserted by Mrs. John Rupp to be members of a bootlegging gang which quarreled with the film director, were grilled by detectives today. George Calvert, also known as Rodney Calvert, alleged to be one of a band of bootleggers that supplied Roscoe Arbuckle with liquor, was named by Mrs. Rupp as the man she says threatened in her presence to kill Taylor. The result of the questioning of the six men arrested in Mrs. Rupp's apartment was not divulged, but it was rumored that important disclosures were made and that one of the men was on the verge of 'breaking.' The new arrest predicted concerns an individual mentioned by Mrs. Rupp in her statement as an associate of the men in custody. She did not state his connection with the case clearly, but confidential information seems to indicate that he is in possession of the facts of the slaying... The statement made under oath today by Mrs. Rupp was 10,000 words in length and mentioned the names of several prominent motion picture actors, some whose names have been brought out in the investigation of Taylor's murder. Her statement also revealed that Mrs. Rupp had attempted suicide following a brutal beating which she declared was given her by certain members of the gang. Throughout her interview with the detectives, all of which was recorded by a shorthand reporter, she referred to the 'poison' which she had taken, of the remarks made by some of the men now under arrest, whom she said had exclaimed, 'Let her die,' when they learned of her condition, and of the threats of death of prevent her from 'squealing.' In declaring Calvert was the man who had threatened to take Taylor's life, the woman said he was enraged and alarmed by the film director's threat to break up his illicit liquor traffic because Calvert had sent him synthetic whisky represented to be bonded liquor. Since the men were arrested, none but officials have access to them. Mrs. Rupp's house at 1836 1/2 West Washington Street has been under police guard. Mrs. Rupp is ill. She says the men tried to asphyxiate her to keep her from telling her story to the authorities. More than twenty-four hours have elapsed since Mrs. Rupp first told her story, and although all the resources of the police and Sheriff's office have been used to test it, the story stands intact in every material detail. Mrs. Rupp's statement is the first of the 'confessions' to really impress the investigators. She admits informing the police because she wants revenge on one of the men, a sweetheart, she says 'threw her down,' but to prove she did not make up the story on the spur of the moment, has sent the detectives to a woman who substantiated her statement that Mrs. Rupp told her the day after the murder, that she knew who killed Taylor. According to Mrs. Rupp's statement, the six men, including two who came from Chicago some time ago, operated a bootlegging and narcotic peddling trade among the Hollywood motion picture folk. Arbuckle was one of their customers, Mrs. Rupp said. Taylor had bought liquor from the men, but their usual source of supply being shut off, they sent him moonshine and said it was the usual bonded goods. The woman says Calvert is wanted in Chicago for 'a terrible crime.' Taylor detected the fraud immediately and not only refused to pay Calvert, but threatened to break up his trade, Mrs. Rupp declared. It was this threat that caused Calvert to say he would kill Taylor. She says on the night of the murder Calvert and another of the men were away from the house in the evening and after returning stayed up all night. She accused Calvert of the murder, she said, and he became pale and told her 'never to mention that again.' The companions of Calvert are booked as William East, laborer; Walter Kirby, studio property man; John Herkey, sheet metal worker, and Harry Amorheim (probably Arnheim), chauffeur. Calvert said he was a gas fitter.
1922-03-02	One movie stars writes love notes like a 13-year-old grammar school girl; another reads the POLICE GAZETTE. Where is this wonderful artistic taste that the movie people have been telling us about?
1922-03-03	SEEK DRUG RING LEADER IN THE TAYLOR MURDER Los Angeles Police Believe He Is Implicated-Another Arrest Is Expected.   Suecial to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Cal, March 2.-A nation-wide search for the leader of an international drug ring, and the possibility of a new arrest, featured today's investigation of the circumstances surrounding the slaying of William Desmond Taylor, film director. The search for the drug ring head was started after information was received by the authorities that he is believed to be implicated id the Taylor murder: The new arrest expected was declared to hinge on information supplied the police by Mrs. John Rupp, who caused the arrest on suspicion ef robbery of six other suspects. It was said that the new suspect is a film actor and an associate of the men in custody. One of the six men arrested on data supplied by Mrs. Rupp was reported today to be on the verge of confessing. The six men are alleged to be members of a bootlegging gang that quarreled with Taylor. Mrs. Rupp related that the men had attempted to sell to Taylor a quantity of bootleg liquor which was supposed to have been bonded. When the director refused to accept the consignment a quarrel broke out and Taylor threatened to inform the Federal agents of their bootlegging activities, she said, if they continued to molest him. According to the woman's statement, she heard one of the men say: " If he squeals I'll kill him." 
1922-03-03	SEEK ACTOR TO THROW LIGHT ON TAYLOR DEATH   Police to Question Six Suspects Second Time, on New Lead Involving Seventh Man.,   Los Angeles. Calif., March 2.-(By the Associated Press.) -A sudden change in the attitude of the police toward the six men arrested Tuesday on information tending to connect them with the murder of William Desmond Taylor, the film director, took place tonight. After announcement today by Detective Sergeant Herman Cline, head of the homicide squad, that the police were convinced the men had no connection with the Taylor murder, the official statement was made tonight that the men would he subjected to another questloning. What new information had reached the detectives was not made public, but it was stated that in connection with the additional questioning search would be continued for a seventh man, said to be a motion-picture actor of some prominence. The arrests of the six and the possible arrests of the seventh man were the results of information given the police by Mrs. John Rupp, housekeeper for the men now in custody, that two of the men, in her Presence, had made threats against Taylor' s life.   March 4, 1922 MAY FREE TAYLOR SUSPECTS No connection Found of Six Men With Film Director 's Slaying.   Loss Angeles. Calif., March S.Police definitely announced tonight for the second time that they had eliminated from all suspicion so far as the William Desmond Taylor murder was concerned, the six men taken into custody here Tuesday on information supplied by their housekeeper. Mrs. John Rupp. The possible connection of the men with other crimes was under investigation, it was stated, and their release was forecast for the near future unless some evidence was found. Henry Peavey, negro, houseman for Taylor, was questioned today concerning a story said to have been told the officials by an unnamed woman, that strange men were concealed in the Taylor home the night of the murder, and were there when Peavey left for the night, after saying goodnight to his employer and the latter 's quest. Mabel Normand, film actress. Peavey declared the woman 's story had no foundation in fact.  
1922-03-04	The tragic death of William D. Taylor, well-known Paramount director, a cultured, studious, and evidently quiet-living man, has shocked the motion picture colony and the general public. The attitude of the picture folks is that of deep sorrow for the loss of one they esteemed. There is a bitter seriousness in the protest of the producing executives against the sweeping condemnation that is expressed via the newspapers. Jesse L. Lasky, Vice-President of Famous Players-Lasky; Samuel Goldwyn, President of the Goldwyn Pictures Corporation, and others, have banded together to get to the bottom of Taylor's death. No expense will be spared to prosecute the guilty one. No expense will be spared to right the entire picture colony--which, unfortunately, has been branded by this second disaster within so short a span of time--in the eyes of the public. MOVIE WEEKLY takes the stand of non-partisanship. Motion pictures and everyone in them are our friends. The public is our friend. The public surely wants to know about Mr. Taylor and what is going on out West. These reportorial details can be read in the papers from day to day. It therefore ill behooves a weekly magazine to poach on newspaper ground. What MOVIE WEEKLY is going to do is to publish the life story of William D. Taylor. [This was reprinted in TAYLOROLOGY 23.] We have authorized a well-known writer to gather this material for us and within the course of a few issues it will be run in from three to four installments. MOVIE WEEKLY will not cast opprobrium on the motion picture players, or upon the picture colony. If there is to be anything said, let it come from the authorities. We are, therefore, expecting soon such a series from people well-known in the industry. This will give you the real truth of Hollywood by those who know and are fearless enough to say what they know. Out in Los Angeles, the TIMES, a local paper, rises to say: 'Among the film people one can see delightful, romantic, wholesome domesticity on the one hand, or an amazing effrontery in free love on the other. There was one little lady at a hotel whose ideas were distinctly interesting. A frightful crash was heard at midnight and it appeared an irate husband has forcibly removed another man from her room via the window route.' Everyone admits that there is this cancerous eaten side of the film colony. But why rail at it? Wipe it out. That's what is going to be done at Hollywood. The Taylor tragedy, following in the footsteps of the Arbuckle case, has aroused the ire of every home-loving Hollywoodite that suffers in the sin shadow cast by such cases. The whole trouble seems to be that the public has been fed up with the eulogistic stories about the stars, and judging from the sundry letters that come into this office, many fans actually believe them to be 'little tin gods.' They aren't. But, on the other hand, they aren't a black and thoroughly demoralized set. At this writing, the Taylor mystery is unsolved. Much speculation is heard on all sides. We refuse to indulge in this pastime. William D. Taylor's life has been one of adventure and romance, and it will all be told in a vivid and dramatic style in his story as we will publish it in MOVIE WEEKLY. We ask our readers not to turn radically against Hollywood and the motion picture people there. Keep your head during this crisis and don't say anything against any man or woman that will shame you when the Taylor mystery is finally solved. We reiterate. Our stand in this case is that of a non-partisan. What is yours? Write and tell us. We are interested.
1922-03-05	(Los Angeles)--In order to place the motion picture industry upon the highest possible plane the Federation of Art was organized today in Hollywood. Its membership is made up of four other organizations, the Writers Guild, the Cinematographers Association, the Actors Equity Association and the Motion Picture Directors Association. Although its purpose in general is to further the good of motion pictures, the federation plans to take vigorous action against the undesirables in the motion picture industry. Actors or other members of the industry who refuse to conduct their private lives according to the highest standards are to be drummed out of camp, so to speak. The writers through their representatives will refuse to sell stories for their use, the cinematographers will refuse to photograph them, the Actors Equity members will refuse to appear in pictures with them and the members of the Directors Association will refuse to direct them.
1922-03-05	WRITES TO POLICE HE KLLED TAYLOR Letter From Connecticut Is Received by Investigators. in Los Angeles. Special to The New York Times LOS ANGELES, Cal., March 4.-A letter from Connecticut in which the writer, a man whose name is withheld. declared he was the slayer of William Desmond Taylor, was received at Police Headquarters today by Captain of Detcctives David L. Adams.  "I killed Taylor for revenge," the man stated in the letter. Impressed by the intimate details of the crime which the writer gave in the letter, Adams sent telegrams to the city in Connecticut where the letter was mailed, asking the police to search for the man. The police of New York and other Eastern points were also notified by Adams, because of a statement by "the writer that he was embarking on a steamer in a flight from the United States. " The letter throws a direct ray of light on the murder mystery." Adams said. " The man's explanation of circumstances leading up to the slaying indicates that he may be telling the truth. His motive was also a reasenable one." An examination of the letter revealed that it was written on select bond paper iand the penmanship indicated the writer was a person of education. The man stated he was leaving the country. He said he wrote the "confession " to clear the mystery of the crime, but that he had ho intention of surrendering or allowing himself to be arrested. He added that he hoped Adams might receive a reward for solving the case. " Until this letter has been thoroughly investigated, its exact contents and the name of the writer cannot be given out," Adams said. "On the face of it, the man seems fo know what he is talking about. He recited intimate details of the slaying which we believe are only known to officers and a few other investigators and to the man who actually killed Taylor." Adams declared it was possible that the man may already be aboard a boat ion the high seas. The man who wrote the letter, he said, was not Edward F. Sands.
1922-03-05	LETTER CONFESSES MURDER OF TAYLOR Credence Put by Los Angeles Police in Communication and Inquiry Speeded. REVENGE GIVEN AS MOTIVE Statements by Writer Exactly Fit Facts in Slaying as Disclosed, Is Announcement.   Los Angeles. Calif, March 4 (By the Associated  Press) -Capt. David Adams, of the Los Angeles police de partment. announed today he had received a letter from a man whose name he refused to disclose stating tthat the writer had killed William Desmond Taylor, motion picture director, whose recent death has baffled investigators.   Making quick Investigation. The letter Capt. Adams said, was written by an educated man, was sent from a city in Connecticut, the name of which he declined to disclose, and. made circumstantial statements that filled in precisely with facts developed by the police. Capt. Adams said he would not say definitely that the letter was a genuine confession, but he would say that the department put much credence in it and was making a thorough and quick investigation.   Gives Revenge as Motive. The letter expressed regret that he could not collect the rewards offered for the arrest of the slayer, but announced that the writer was leaving the country immediately. It gave revenge for an old feud as the motive for the shooting of Taylor and was signed by a name that had not been connected with the previous investigations. Capt. Adams declined to give out further details and said he would not show the letter at present.
1922-03-06	How can there be men and women writers anywhere on earth base enough to invent any or all of the lurid stories that have been printed so generally about Hollywood and the film people?' The question was asked in an article by Frank Woods, president of the Screen Writers' Guild of the Authors' League of America, and Thompson Buchanan, chairman of the Writers Club, which was printed in the CHICAGO TRIBUNE of March 1 and in other papers throughout the country. The article, a defense of Hollywood and the film people, is in reality an attack upon Wallace Smith of the CHICAGO EVENING AMERICAN and myself--and Mr. Woods and Mr. Buchanan mentioned our names, branding us as liars, fakers, slanderers, dealers in scandal. Mr. Smith and I have been warned repeatedly that gangs of men employed in the studios have sworn to 'get us.' [9] We have been called 'space writers,' representatives of the 'scurrilous eastern press,' and it has been intimated that we are users of drugs ourselves--we who complain that a few movie actors ease their worries with a sniff or a shot in the arm. But the movie people who have threatened violence have taken the more prudent method. They have not come near us. They have left the matter to their writing men-- and these have attacked us in the newspapers. I should not have replied to these articles had the TRIBUNE, for which I write, not printed the Woods-Buchanan article. The TRIBUNE printed it because the TRIBUNE believes in fair play. Had there not been a reference to Mr. Smith and myself I should not have challenged a single statement of these two Hollywood writers. In the first place let me explain that neither Wallace Smith nor Edward Doherty is a space writer. [10] Both of us, writing space, could have made thousands of dollars; neither of us made a cent. We wrote what we pleased, spending extra hours to send it, merely because we were assigned to the story and felt it our duty to tell the world about Hollywood. Not a line of what we wrote was faked. Not a story was invented; not one article that either of us wrote contained a single thing that was untrue. [11] Both of us know that if we did print anything untrue there would be libel suits. There have been many articles in which we were referred to as liars and slanderers--but no libel suit has been started; and we do not believe one will be started. I live in Hollywood. I have lived there since last October. I have a year's lease on a house. I intend to go on living in Hollywood. I know Hollywood, and I know my neighbors. Wallace Smith has lived in the Ambassador Hotel since last November, but he knows Hollywood, too. He has frequently visited it in the company of actors and actresses. He has been to some of the Hollywood parties which-- according to Messrs. Woods and Buchanan--never occurred. It may be an interesting sidelight to record the fact that I, a conscienceless liar, a slanderous scandal monger, a reporter who has told so many untruths about Hollywood, should be offered the opportunity of becoming the chief publicity man for 'Fatty' Roscoe Arbuckle--and that I should reject the offer as soon as it was made. I covered the Arbuckle story on three occasions in San Francisco. I had excellent opportunities for 'faking,' as the Woods-Buchanan combination calls it. But it appears I sadly neglected it--and the offer to become Arbuckle's publicity man came from one of Arbuckle's attorneys, a man who has read everything I have written, including my articles on Hollywood. 'Hollywood is angry,' said this lawyer. 'The truth stings.' I feel rather proud of this. The Woods-Buchanan article intimates that I sided with the district attorney against Arbuckle. I sided with nobody. I never do. I tell the facts as accurately as I can get them. I feel with the Screen Writers in this--that Arbuckle is innocent of the death of Virginia Rappe. 'Arbuckle's mode of living,' they said, 'which was too often the same as that of thousands of young men of other stations in life, who, like him, have too much money, was nevertheless indefensible, and, somehow, someway, the impression was conveyed that he was a fair example of the film folks' depravity.' That's what the Screen Writers said. I wouldn't have said that. Strange to say, I believe Arbuckle one of the cleanest of all moving picture actors. I didn't think so--but the conviction was drilled into me through watching him in his three ordeals and to listening to the evidence against him. 'This quiet and beautiful section of Los Angeles has been treated to a drenching of slander unequaled in American journalism,' the defenders say, 'while film people themselves have been pictured largely as drug addicts, drunkards, profligates, and degenerates. If a half or a quarter or even a tenth of this muckraking is founded on fact then the people engaged in making motion pictures, particularly the stars, are of the wrong class and ought to be eliminated.' True, and the 'muckraking' is founded on a talk with a member of the state board of pharmacy, who has control of the drug addicts of Los Angeles and who has registered not a few moving picture stars and lesser lights with deputy sheriffs; with decent men and women picture players; with the local reporters, who wish they could print what they know; with the records in the police blotters. Neither Smith nor I was born yesterday. We have been in many cities in the United States and Mexico. Both of us have become more or less accustomed to looking on the seamy side of life--and both of us were amazed at the conditions that exist in the land of the movies. We were incredulous at first. We investigated. We found out the truth. And at the earliest opportunity, without consulting each other, we began to tell it. I regret to say that we were not the first to tell of what is going on in Hollywood--I do not say was going on, but is going on. Theodore Dreiser told some plain, blunt, ugly facts about directors and extra girls and other incidents in SHADOWLAND, a moving picture magazine. [12] I have not heard that either Mr. Woods or Mr. Buchanan called Mr. Dreiser a liar or a faker or a muckraker or even a space writer. Let's sum up the rest of the article briefly: 'Work in pictures is exacting and mentally and physically exhausting--so much so that a great majority of the active workers have no time, strength, nor inclination for the revelries and orgies which have been pictured as the rule rather than the exception.' But there is a minority that does find the time. We did not say the majority was rotten. We do say the minority is. 'The camera is relentless, and no actor or actress, especially the younger ones whose faces are literally their fortunes, can remain long in the spotlight and at the same time give way to any sort of self-indulgence.' Correct. There are a lot of favorites, still young, still beautiful, who no longer dare the camera's scrutiny. There are others who will be 'removed' very soon. It is understood that Adolph Zukor came to the coast recently to get rid of one of the most prominent male stars in the world--who has been using a hypodermic needle. [13] 'Taylor, himself, who had been a man of exemplary habits, fine deportment, and high ideals, turned out to have had an adventurous past. He had taken a stage name, like many others of theatrical profession, and this was made much of.' He had a woman's nightgown in his home. He was attended by persons of no character. He was an intimate of several women, had deserted his wife and child. He took a couple of stage names. There are other accusations against him. One could go on indefinitely. The article complains that reporters said certain movie people questioned by the officials were 'grilled.' Smith and Doherty said they were not grilled, but should have been--and we repeat it. After telling how Smith and Doherty 'seized on the Taylor mystery as an excuse for digging up and rehashing all the dead scandals of the picture people that had accumulated in the last ten years' the article admits 'there were only a bare half dozen of them,' adding, 'but they were embellished, added to, and enlarged until they read like juicy stuff.' Here's confirmation right out of the screen people themselves. We not only dug up a lot of dead scandals which were news because they had not been printed before--but we also told a lot of new ones. A writer in New York [14] tells how the film folk there recognized the persons talked about, even though in the first place the stories were untrue, and the characters, thinly disguised. This writer, after denying everything we wrote, added very naively, that we must have paid 'some one on the inside' very well for our information. Then there is reference to an 'alleged interview with a Jap butler--pure fiction.' It was I who told the Jap butler's story. I don't know whether the story was true, however. I could not verify it. So I told it, as it came to me and quoted the Jap butler for what he was worth--nothing more. There are more ridiculous articles being printed by the Screen Writers than two reporters can reply to. They are all of the same type, denying the stories written by us, calling us fakers, picturing us as 'trampling the daisies under foot' and proving nothing. However, as Smith has told, the biggest hotel in Los Angeles has given its waiters order to 'sap over the head' any actor who 'sniffs a nail full of snow, or mixes a drink, or makes a rough crack in the dining room.'
1922-03-06	SAYS MAN AND WIFE MURDERED TAYLOR Connecticut 'Confession' Asserts Husband of Wronged Woman Confronted Film Director.   LOS ANGELES, Cal., March 5.-The latest "confession" of the murder of William Desmond Taylor, film director, received by the police here in a letter mailed from an unnamed Connecticut city, was made by a man who deseribed himself as " an avenging husband," it was disclosed today by Captain of Detectives Adams. According to the letter, the film director had had " an affair" with the writer's wife. Later the director had "scorned" her, the wife confessed to her husband, and the two of them planned "vengeance," the letter recounted. The "confession" stated that on the night of the murder Feb. 1, the writer and his wife drove in an automobile to within two blocks of the Taylor bungalow. There they parked the car. From a distance they saw Mabel Normand, film actress, leaving the apartment, escorted to her motor car by the director, and Henry Peavey, Taylor's negro servant, talking with William Davis, Miss Normand's chauffeur. While Taylor was talking with Miss Normand, the " confession " continued, "the scorned wife" slipped through the open front door of the director's bungalow and unlocked the back door for her husband to enter. When Taylor returned the wife and husband confronted him. Portions of the letter concerning the actual meeting and the killing were not given out, but, according to other parts, the wife, after Taylor had been slain, left by the back door, which the husband locked after her, and then hurried to their automobile and started the engine, in readiness for a quick departure when he rejoined her. Then the husband left calmly by the front door, stooping slightly, so he would not be recognized if seen; joined his wife, and drove away with her. The police state that they place a certain amount of credence in the " confession." Captain Adams declared the handwriting of the "confessor " was similar to that of Edward F. Sands, missing former butler-secretary to Taylor, but pointed out that the context precluded its having been written by Sands, who was not married.
1922-03-06	The Taylor Case I've followed up the Taylor case Till I am purple in the face, And still I'm all at sea; The sleuths ignores his bed and feed To find the crook who did the deed, But still it's mystery. Each day detectives scent a clue, That in a moment busts in two, Like toy balloons, egad; And all the science that they know So far has failed to snare the bo So crim-i-nally bad. I'm sure that Sherlock Holmes would solve The puzzle of the shot revolv, And ferret out the crook, If it were not the painful truth That all the logic of this sleuth Just came from out a book!
1922-03-06	HE KILLED TAYLOR, HUSBAND WRITES Fired Fatal Shot, Because Film  Director Scorned His Wife, Connecficut Man Says. GIVES DETAILS OF TRAGEDY Went to Victim's Studio With Spouse, He Adds, Just as Mabel Normand Departed.   Los Angeles, March S. -(By the Associated Press.)The latest "confession" of the murder of William Desmonde Taylor, film director, received it by the police here in a letter mailedl from an unnamed Connecticut city. was made by a man who described himself as "an avenging husband," it was disclosed today by Captain off Detectives Adams. The officers are withholding the name of the city from which the "confession" came and the name signed to the document while endeavoring to learn more of the writer.   Says Wife Was Scorned. According to the letter the film director had had "an affair" with the writers wife. Later the director had "scorned" her, the wife confessed to  her husband, and the two of them planned "vengeance," the letter recounted. The "confession" stated that the night of the murder, February 1, the writer and his wife drove in an automobile to within two blocks of the Taylor bungalow. There they parked  their care. From a distance they saw  Mabel Normand, film actress, leaving the apartment, escorted to her motor car by the director, and Henry Peavy, Taylorss negro servant, talking with William Davis, Miss Normand 's chauffeur. While Taylor was talking with Miss Normand, the "confession" continues, "the scorned wife" slipped through the open front door of the director 's bungalow and unlocked the back door for her husband to enter. When Taylor returned the wife and husband confronted him.   Leaves by Front Door. portions of the letter concerning  the actual meeting and the killing were not given out, but. according to  other parts. the wife, after Taylor had been slain, left by the back door, which the husband locked after her, and then hurried to their automobile  and started the engine in readiness  for a quick departure when he rejoined her. Then the husband left calmly by the front door, stooping slightly so he would not be recognized if seen, joined his wife and drove away with her. The police state that they place a certain amount of credence in the it "confession." Capt. Adams declared the handwriting of the "confesser" was similiar to that of Edward F. Sands, missing former butler-secretary to Taylor, but pointed out that the context precluded its having been written by hands, who was not married.
1922-03-07	SEND RADIO TO SHIPS IN SEARCH FOR SANDS Police Think He Wrote Taylor Murder "Confession," Signing Name of Film Man. MAILED IN ATLANTC CITY it Was Written on Hotel Stationery Investigation of it Will Be Continued. Special to The New York Times. Los ANGELES, March 6. -Wireless messages asking the masters of steamers outbound from Atlantic coast ports to search their vessels for Edward F. Sands, missing secretary of William Desmond Taylor, slain film director, were dispatched today from radio stations on the east coast at the request of the Los Angeles police. This development came after the police declared that the "confession" received in a letter was believed to have been written by Sands. The letter said that the writer planned to leave the country immediately. Captain David L. Adams said today that the name signed to the letter was not that of a moving picture actor, as  was at first reported, but that of a man who has been mentioned frequently in the course of the investigation and who is believed to have much knowledge of Taylor's past life. Captain Adams also said that the letter was mailed in Atlantic City, N. J., not in a Connecticut city as at first reported and that the police of that city have been co-operating with the local investigators. Captain Adams added that he considered the letter of such significance that he has turned it over to District Attorney Woolwine for further investigation. The Detective Captain said he is, convinced the author of the letter had intimate knowledge "of circumstances surrounding the slaying. The letter at one point said, according to Captain Adams: "We South Americans always take care of our women. Captain Adams said that he would have the handwriting of the letter and a known sample of Sands's penmanship compared. The detective Captain planned to call in today the aid of a handwriting expert. The letter was written on hotel stationery and covered ten pages. The writer deseribed the events which led up to the shooting and the manner of carrying out the plot. Mabel Normand has recovered her health, it was reported today. She attended the automobile races at the Beverly Speedway yesterday, occupying a  front box in the main grand stand with  two girl friends. Special to The New York Times. ATLANTIC CITY N. J. March 6.Chief of Police Robert C. Miller deelared tonight that his department had not been asked to investigate the mailing of the "confession letter" purporting to give details of the murder of William  Desmond Taylor at Los Angeles Feb. 1. Dispatches from Los Angeles this afternoon declared that the Chief of Police of that city had announced that the letter written on hotel stationery had been mailed from this city Feb. 27. "It is news to me," Miller asserted.  "I have not been asked to investigate  such a letter." County Prosecutor Edmund C. Gaskill Jr. and Postmaster William B. Loudenslager also stated they knew nothing of  the matter. "A case of this nature would come  under the jurisdiction of the postal inspectors," Postmaster Loudenslager declared. " I have heard nothing about it and have not seen an inspector for a week." The authorities agree that it would be  difficult to trace such a letter, even if the name of the hotel were given. 
1922-03-07	NAME OF SUSPECT ON MURDER LETTER "We South Americans," Wrote Man Who Says He killed Taylor in Revenge." ARRAIGNS DEAD DIRECTOR. Confession in Which Writer says He Redressed Wrong to Wife, Dated Atlantie City.   Loss Angeles, Calif., March S (By the Associated PresslA brief part say as Sands so far as known, a of the ten page handwritten letter purporting to be a confession to the murder here February I of William a Desmond Taylor, film director, mailed I to the Loss Angeles, police department from Atlantic City, N. I., February 2!, and received in this city March A, was made public tonight by David L. Adams, captain of detectives. ThelVfied by the police, part made public read: "We South Americans always take care of our women. We are hot headed and see that swift justice is meted out to those who wrong us. "I killed the a L. and even this is a mild description of the man who, hiding behind a polished manner, won the regard of many women, only to cast them aside when tired of them. for a new plaything."   sentences are Photographed. The confession according to Capt. Adams, was signed with the name of a man who occupied a prominent place in the motion picture industry and whose wife was a native of South America. It was said the man had left Loss Angeles about the time of I" the murder and that he had previously been considered by the police in connection with the crime, This is the only part of the document which has been made public and the only part to be read by other than officials. Capt. Adams stated. He stated that a newspaper had been permitted to photograph the section quoted to make a comparison of hand writing. Detectives were busy today checking statements contained in the "confession" from Atlantie City and in another letter received by the police shortly after the slaying. The previous letter, it was said and the confession contained identical sratements as to persons, times and places and the former was considered from the viewpoint of its apparent contribution to the latter.   Not written by Sands. in examination by experts of the "tlantic City communication, which was written upon the stationery of! a well-known hotel there, proved it was not written by Edward F. Sands.   Imising former butleresecretary to to Talor, it was stated. his confirmed a previously annbnced view of the detectives, they ask we. Game er for a lenqwo see herein not married, while the confession, the added, was made by a husband. They stated that the letter said the mass wife had first engaged in and ("adir" with Taylor, only to be of "Sfrned" by him later. apt. Adams said when he had ananOhced that the confession had been I Imded in a Connecticut city he had ilmind another communication reclad by the police, " was reported but not confirmed the the police had asked Boston detefiyes to search an establishment ilthat city in the hope of effecting a for  dearrest in connection with the murof Taylor.   
1922-03-08	Captain of Detectives David L. Adams stated Wednesday that the police hunt for the murder of William Desmond Taylor had again narrowed to a search for Edward F. Sands, missing secretary-valet of the picture director. Sands was seen only a few days before the shooting in the vicinity of the Taylor bungalow at 404-B South Alvarado Street by a 10-year-old girl, it is thought. The girl, who knew Sands when he was employed by Taylor, is positive in her identification. The fact that the man, already charged with robbery and forgery by his employer, risked detection to visit the spot where he formerly worked, strengthens Captain Adams' conviction that he is responsible for the murder.
1922-03-08	Curdled Brains More than 300 different persons have written to the Los Angeles police 'confessing' to the murder of William Taylor. This means that there are at least 300 weak-minded individuals in the country. One can hardly think of a feebler brain than the one that spends time and trouble to pretend the conception of a crime it knows nothing of except through the papers. But, after all, this is nothing to the exhibition of mental debility we would have if Taylor's murderer were behind the bars. The unsolved mystery of the crime has brought forward only one type of imbeciles. Another and far larger class would be produced by the capture of the criminal. Were his address known at some prominent jail thirty times 300 addlepates would proclaim themselves by sending him flowers, writing him scented notes full of silly slush, and trying to call on him in order to bring their morbid sentimentality into contact with his aura of iniquity. No, the Taylor mystery has by no means revealed all the whey wits in the country. The possibilities are not at all exhausted in the count of 300. And from that point of view we have really been lucky that the murderer has not been caught.
1922-03-08	DISCARD MURDER LETTER. Los Angeles Police Believe Taylor "Confession" Work of Crank.   Loss Angeles, March 7.-Police detectives assigned to the William Desmonde Taylor murder mystery tonight announced they had discarded the "confession" mailed from Atlantic City, N. J., as the work of an unsound mind. They declared that the hand writing of the man whose name was signed to the "confession," said to be a prominent figure in the motion-picture industry, in no way corresponded to that in which the document was written. Detective Sergeant Herman Cline said he had obtained a statement from a 10-year-old girl, living near the Taylor bungalow, that Edward F. Sands, missing former butler-secretary to the film director, whom she knew well, was in Los Angeles long after he was supposed to have left the city.
1922-03-12	Mayo spent several hours in town last week on his way from coast to coast. He wasn't a bit happy. He says he was misquoted in a certain newspaper, and as a result the world's down on him. He was quoted as saying that Hollywood should be cleaned up--or burned up--or something, WHICH, he says, he never asserted. There may have been wild parties, he admits, but he never was in any of 'em and never saw anything of the kind. But the picture people think he's done 'em dirt, and they haven't hesitated to let him know it. Moreover, deplored poor Mr. Mayo, he got in bad with the navy, they having read that he had said the Hollywood folk spent their money 'like drunken sailors.' 'I've been writing lots of letters,' Mr. Mayo said mournfully, 'and I'm beginning to get myself squared.' This husky star has been in New York. Circumstances sound like maybe a little birdie told him he'd better hie him to the woods and keep real still for a long, long time!
1922-03-12	Taylor Death Note Revealed The startling letter of 'confession' received by Captain of Detectives David L. Adams last Saturday is the only letter out of many hundreds received at police headquarters that is receiving the serious attention of Captain Adams. The letter in question is as follows: 'Hotel Traymore, Atlantic City, N. J. 'As I am of the opinion that the JUST murder of ONE W. D. Taylor has just a bit too much limelight and that he is being defended by too many duped friends, I take it upon myself to write these few lines to you, for I have accomplished my purpose by killing the DIRTY CUR, and even this is a mild description of the man who had hidden behind a clean, polite and polished personality. 'This much, my dear friend, I will inform you, not one of the women whose names have been brought into this affair had anything to do with his death, nor his secretary and valet, Peavey could, in my own personal opinion, say much if he would of W. D.'s relations with several women callers, although W. D. never had him remain all night at his home. 'Just nine years ago Taylor entered into my wife's life and always a lover of everything that was good and an admirer of a real gentleman, she was very soon under my friend's GOOD INFLUENCE, and here, Captain, I might add that Taylor was my friend. 'He always at first made it his business to gain the complete confidence of all his women. As to my wife she fairly worshiped him, and while I was a good husband and tidy I had not the personality that W. D. had. My wife soon fell to contrasting the two of us and would tell me I should do so and so and be like so and so, and so on until I began to spend my evenings at the club because it became too irksome at home, and because I was too much of a gentleman to ask W. D. to leave until his visit, which in truth was a vacation, had expired, for he was my guest by invitation. 'But, oh H--, Captain, why should I bother you with so much detail; suffice it to say (here follows story of alleged relations between Taylor and the writer's wife). 'He had wanted my wife as he had wanted other women that took his fancy. He was a gentleman always to all persons outwardly. And he went about it by acts of kindness and charity to such a degree that he convinced even the most skeptical, and now, Captain, in the midst of my condemnation of the man, I ask you not to lose sight of the fact that W. D. played four women and a girl at one time and had the complete confidence of each and had each visit him separately, and yet played each so skillfully that they each of them were absolutely convinced that he had only their future welfare in mind at all times, and so gained their complete confidence and later their affection though his by-play of friendship and paternal interest. 'Until he became involved with (mentioning the name of a film actress) I was inclined to let him go because in time I think (another luminary of the film world) would have gotten him in revenge, for she was the only woman who saw at least partly through W. D., and I think a little later intended to compel W. D. to do her bidding, for he meant much to her both in financial and other ways, for ----, like Taylor, enjoys both freedom and a good name, and she could go a long ways toward making a bargain with a man like Taylor. 'The three women connected with Taylor (here follows a bitter denunciation of both Taylor and the women named). But the other actress was a good girl, and as I and my wife knew Taylor well enough to know that he would get her and my wife swore to me that if he did she would kill him, I thought it about time to take a hand myself, for I had sworn to get Taylor some day, but in a way that I would never hang for it, and so I set about planning how, and here, Captain, I might add that in spite of all any one tells you to the contrary (that W. D. feared no one) he lived constantly in fear that I would some day get him, for he knew me well and he feared more than ever when he learned that my wife's love had turned to hate, for he knew her, too. 'South American women, you know, can hate as deeply and intensely as they can love, and with all his smooth personality he was not diplomatic enough to carry her along with others as he did his American women. There are two facts that have been overlooked to date, Captain. They are these: 'We had been living in the central section of the financial district at a hotel on Spring Street and were out in the colony daily and only on one occasion did we let Taylor see us, and that only after we had made a careful study of his everyday habits and life as he lived. 'I even came East on two occasions on the same train. Well, Captain, what is the use of detail? I return again to the two facts. On the afternoon of the night of the killing we borrowed a friend's car and drove to the home of another acquaintance near Venice. We returned to L.A. and changed clothes and dined. 'We then drove out to Hollywood to within two squares of W. D.'s home and left the car and proceeded on foot up Alvarado. Being familiar with the time Peavey left, we intended to go in on Taylor after he was alone. I had pass keys to both the front and back doors. Seeing a woman coming down the street we separated, my wife turned away from Alvarado and circled and I struck off up the street and behind shrubbery and foliage. 'The woman, I believe, was a nurse and I believe saw me, but owing to the distance and the way I had my muffler and cap she could never recognize me anyhow. A car was at the curb and I joined my wife at the back of the house. 'I let my wife in the back door. My wife went to the living room, where she listened unobserved, and then I slipped the front door, and any one at all could have seen me do it. Taylor returned and went to the drawer of the table and put a letter there from his pocket and turned and sat down in the chair, where he remarked to himself: ' 'I wish I were away from there. This ---- place is getting on my nerves, and most of all, these ---- women.' (Follows an alleged opinion upon the part of Taylor concerning some of his friends.) 'Then my wife stepped into the room and I with her and she spoke to him and she said: ' 'Well, well, William dear, I see you still have a little influence over women.' 'He said, 'God, I knew it.' and turned and I fired. As he fell forward he called my wife by name and said he knew she would do it but he would rather have her do it, for it was her that he had hurt more than any one he ever knew and deserved it. He did not die for fully fifteen minutes, and what few things he said concerned only us. 'For a few minutes my wife's old infatuation came back to her and she knelt beside him and cried, and then laid him out tenderly. God, man, but women are mysterious creatures. 'I woke her up by telling her we were guilty of murder and so far were a long way from safe as we had planned. She cursed the fool and put her cloak around her and I went out back to see if everything was clear. Oh, by the way, I forgot to mention that we were both inside when the chauffeur for W. D. came up and we watched him go away. I sent the wife out the back way and she went around the block and I walked out the front door and down Alvarado Street. 'The wife was sitting in the car and I got in and drove to L.A. We did not go right back to the hotel, but took in a moving picture because the girl was nervous. Then back to the hotel. 'Wife continued nervous and I realized that she had best get away. Sent her in car to friends at Santa ----. She did not change clothes still having on evening gown. Bell-boy took a grip down to car for us and I bid her good- bye. Checked out next day and joined her. We then came back and took train for Chicago. From Chi to Buffalo. Left her in Toronto and I came to New York, from there to here. 'Have settled business interests here and in N.Y. and now on way to Could do a lot towards clearing up things but there is no such thing as immunity for a self confessed murderer and I believe I did a just thing and if not God in his good time will punish me. 'When you receive this I shall be on the high seas and I have very powerful influence where my wife and I are going, and what is the use of California spending so much money goose chasing? I would like to see you get the reward Capt. but under circumstances must disappoint you. Am writing to you because you are the only one out of all connected that will stick to your own deductions and convictions. There were only two people who knew who killed W. D. and when you receive this there will be three. The more you investigate along wrong paths the more you hurt the M.P. Industry. 'Adieu captain.' The name of the man signed to the alleged confession is that of a person well known in picture circles.
1922-03-12	The Truth About Hollywood Two unfortunate incidents of a tragic nature have directed public attention to Hollywood--a colony which, because of these happenings, has become so widely discussed that it needs no identification. Roscoe Arbuckle, a comedian of the screen, who has made millions laugh, was host at a party, and one of his guests, a young woman of the screen, died. Arbuckle and his ill-fated guest were from, and of, Hollywood. A popular photoplay director, one of the most gifted of them all, was murdered under circumstances that aroused public interest--an interest always excited by the mysterious and the unexplainable. Taylor, the director, was a leading worker in Hollywood, and about him fluttered a bevy of our most attractive feminine celebrities of the screen. All of them his neighbors or frequent visitors to the Hollywood community. What kind of place is this Hollywood? It has been said widely that the license of Babylon is as the Blue Laws in comparison to the customary wickedness of the settlement of screen favorites. Those who live in Hollywood, frightened by the sudden glare of public attention upon their doings, say their beloved colony is but an average suburb, more beautiful and gayer, perhaps. than others, but just as orderly. And from Hollywood itself the public has turned its examining impulse upon the 'movie folk' themselves. What manner of folk are they? Primitive and bad? Or humane and good? These are questions worthy of answer. And the answer may be worth while only if given dispassionately after careful, exhaustive examination into all the aspects of Hollywood--its secrets as well as its propaganda; its people as well as its activities; its customs as well as its laws. It is an old saying, 'there can be no smoke without a fire.' So much smoke has spread from Hollywood during the last four months, surely there must be some fire. But is it a conflagration--or a blaze? Is it fanned from within, as gossip says, or from without, as the people of the films declare? On this page is presented today the first of a series of articles resulting from careful, painstaking investigation by The New York Herald-- investigation conducted in Hollywood itself. Here is the evidence for and against Hollywood; and the evidence for and against its players in the great comedy-drama that otherwise is called 'the movie world.'
1922-03-12	Not even in the good old pre-war days when Germany was looked upon as a possible business and social companion, were there so many foreign film producers as we have had with us this Summer. Every boat brings an influx of foreign competitors, all of them prepared to exploit their motion pictures. After meeting most of them and classifying them as to their place in this great cinema world, we are forced to admit Abel Gance brings an agreeable personality not often found in this drab workaday hemisphere, where the pursuit of gold so often robs a man of his native charm. Of course Mr. Gance comes to us from Paris with the halo of a playwright and poet. He is not essentially a motion picture producer, combining rather his film perquisites with his reputation as one of France's rising young dramatists. In the course of four months he has succeeded in establishing himself in New York in a manner that most foreigners would consider a feat in four years. But that is due to the Gance personality--which is a tangible thing--a force no one can gainsay after meeting the maker of 'J'Accuse.' In was in fact 'J'Accuse' that first brought Abel Gance to America. That he came for three weeks and remained four months speaks well of our country. His purpose originally was to place 'J'Accuse' on the market. This he succeeded in accomplishing by virtue of a contract with United Artists. Still he lingers, impelled this time by a desire to see a Broadway presentation of his picture, when it opens at the Strand later this month. After seeing 'J'Accuse' and Mr. Gance's treatment of the war, a subject that has perhaps suffered from clumsy interpretation more than any event in recent years, one instinctively knows there is something in this young French producer that is not ordinary. He thinks in a plane not usual in our best motion picture circles, and he understands the spiritual power of the cinema. His idea is to portray on the screen what the eye cannot see--to put it more simply, to give people something to think about and not to have their mental labors performed for them. These things he told me over the luncheon table with the aid of his efficient secretary, Pierre. At times lapsing into his own French tongue he told something of his early life in Paris. His love of literature was born with him, and at the age most boys were devouring their 'Nick Carter' dime novels he was reading Shakespeare, Goethe, Corneille and Hugo. Some times he dipped into Ibsen and Tolstoi, broadening out his literary foundation day by day until he acquired a speaking acquaintance with all these famous writers. A familiarity with these authors one would not think would inspire a youth to leave home, still about this time young Gance ran away to Brussels. He hadn't any money and he had to eat. A chance to become an actor was offered him and he accepted it, not because it appealed to him but because gentlemen as well as ladies must live. This little flier before the footlights gave him an opportunity to keep in touch with the drama. As it turned out later it became an excellent preparatory school for what was to follow. The young Frenchman about this time changed his mode of mental attack and feasted on the philosophers, choosing Nietzsche, Confucius, Schopenhauer and others of this school for his daily diet. And Mr. Gance hasn't forgotten his philosophers; he talks about them quite as intelligently as he does about motion pictures, uniting the two in an amazing fashion, although we do not usually think of Schopenhauer and motion pictures as having any relative association. About this time motion pictures appeared on the horizon and he accepted a job to write scenarios. Mr. Gance said when he began to make pictures to the tune of a time clock he found the same difficulties that we have here-- a demand that all screen stories have a happy ending regardless of logic. His only hope was that one day he would have a chance to produce a film without all these obstacles, and finally one day along came Louis Nalpas, at that time manager of the Film d'Art, France's most important film company, with the very chance he wanted. At the end of three days Mr. Gance was ready to produce 'Mater Dolorosa' from his own scenario. That it is one of the most successful films ever made in Europe and shows the young man was born with a dramatic instinct that needed only a little cultivation to encourage, a little experience to bring out his latent talent as a producer. Of course, he has followed 'Mater Dolorosa' with other productions, and while making pictures as he believes they should be made he has taken time to write two stage plays. One is a mystery play, 'La Dame du Lac,' a drama of the Middle Ages. The other 'La Victoire de Somothrace,' a tragedy, in five acts will be produced at the Comedie Francais. To the Frenchman having a play produced at the Comedie Francais is like an American having an opera accepted at the Metropolitan Opera House--it has the same significance. A contest held by the Comedia, a Paris newspaper, shows how Mr. Gance stands in his own home town. The purpose of this contest was to determine the most popular pictures in Paris. 'The Cheat' received seventy-six votes, Chaplin seventy-two and then came four of Mr. Gance's pictures, 'J'Accuse,' 'The Tenth Symphony,' 'Mater Dolorosa' and 'The Zone of Death,' proving it is not a case of one production that induces the admiration of France's output of Gance pictures. Although Mr. Gance has received a very cordial invitation to remain in New York and produce his next three--'Ecce Homo,' 'The End of the World' and 'The Kingdom of Earth'--he evades this issue very politely by remarking he loves America but hasn't decided yet whether or not he will make pictures here. He is young, only 30, and yet with a future that impresses his admirers as being one of the pivots that will turn the tread of film art in the proper direction. He is ambitious, he is eager and he is enthusiastic-- this with his personality and his ability should make it possible for him to achieve what he desires--a chance to redeem the screen from the banalities of life, to show things as they are, and use some of the terrific power he says he knows the motion picture offers. It has always been his plan to develop social idea--a psychological situation--doing this gives him a field in the broad area of the cinema possibilities almost untouched. After hearing him talk and seeing 'J'Accuse' it is no fulsome praise to say he will do those things--he is doing them. He is taking the weak and heretofore undeveloped side of pictures, the spiritual, mental side, and giving them the attention they should have if the new art is to endure.
1922-03-18	If anyone wants to make Ruth Roland downright mad--not merely annoyed, but good old-fashioned mad--one way is to ask her if she doesn't 'aspire' to do feature pictures instead of serials. Miss Roland, who is in San Francisco for a few days rest between episodes of her coming picture, declares that the only aspiration she has is to make better serials, and that she doesn't care if she never makes a feature film. Serials, to Ruth Roland, are a good deal more than chaptered thrills. 'People who think that making serials is just a matter of stringing impossible adventures together and getting the greatest number of thrills into thirteen reels, don't know what they are talking about,' said Miss Roland. 'That might have been true in the first days of the movies, but it isn't so now. Every one of my pictures has a real theme and a real story. I try as hard as I can to make them logical and plausible. 'And as for work--well, the star of a feature picture only has to please his audience for five or six reels; but in a serial I not only have to please my audience for twenty-six reels, but keep them coming back to the theater every week for thirteen weeks. And believe me, that isn't easy. 'I suppose that I could make feature pictures if I wanted to, but I don't want to. I'd rather have people think of me as Ruth Roland, the girl who makes good serials, than merely as one of a hundred stars of feature films. 'And we people of the serials have our troubles with the censor. Somehow--probably because they think so many children come to see us--the censors put on their strongest glasses when they look at a serial film. Things that go over in feature pictures are slashed out of serials every day. 'I have to give that side of my work a great deal of care, and I am very particular not to let anything the list bit out of the way get into my pictures. Actually, I haven't used my gun for so long that I've almost forgotten how to pull the trigger, and I think I'll kill my next villain by hurling cream puffs at him.' Miss Roland is a vigorous champion of Hollywood in that film center's stand against critics. 'I wish people who don't know what they're talking about would be kind enough to keep still until they see for themselves,' she declared. 'The east especially has the most extraordinary idea of Hollywood--a sort of village of vice, with Los Angeles just a little town hanging on the edge. I have been in pictures for ten years so I certainly should know something about the people who make them, and I don't know a finer, busier, generally better class of people anywhere than the film folk of Hollywood.'
1922-03-18	TAYLOR ARRESTS RUMORED Two Men Sought in connection With Case Reported in Custody.   Loss Angeles, March ly. -Enverified reports that two men wanted in connection with the murder February I of William Desmond Taylor film director, had been taken into custody in Lower California, near Mexicali, were received here tonight. The Loss Angeles detectives, under instructions of the district attorney, were said to be searching Sonora and lower California 'towns, just below the American line, for two former Canadian soldiers who were in Taylor 's command overseas during the world War. These men, the authorities said. were believed to be the ones who, on the night of January Sl. were given a ride near Tustin, in Orange county, by L. A. Cock, a rancher of Santa Ana. Cock later reported threats he said the men made and which, after Taylor was killed, he interpreted as haveing referred to the director. are
1922-03-19	A letter was received from a former army officer in London, England, who wrote that one day after the Armistice was signed he was dining with Captain Taylor in a London hotel. As a stranger in the uniform of the Canadian army crossed the dining hall Taylor suddenly remarked: 'There goes a man who is going to get me if it takes a thousand years to do it.' Taylor then went on to explain that the man was a sergeant in his company whom he had reported and had courtmartialed for the theft of army property. A description of the man was contained in the letter.
1922-03-20	In the arrest yesterday of Anthony Gessel, 39, known to the underworld as 'Scar Face Tony,' the police said they had in custody one of the principle agents dispensing narcotics in the country. According to Dr. Carleton Simon, chief of the narcotic squad, under whose direction the arrest was made, Gessel has supplied more drugs to the addicts of this city than any other single known dealer. Gessel, who says he has been an addict since he was 15 years old, admitted he had been supplying morphine at $150 an ounce to a prominent motion picture actress mentioned in the recent Taylor murder case, Dr. Simon said. He also asserted that William Desmond Taylor had been slain by one of the drug ring in California, whose trade in narcotics had aroused the ire of the slain director... Gessel spoke of the killing of Taylor, but according to Dr. Simon no effort was made to communicate with the California authorities, although Gessel admitted knowing a number of members of the drug ring which is known to be operating in the vicinity of the movie studios. He told in detail how he had supplied the morphine for a certain actress at regular intervals, but said that some one had 'cut in on his trade' before the date of the killing of Taylor. Although the name of the actress who has figured prominently in the murder of the motion picture director was stated positively to the police by Gessel, who said he had both sold the drugs to her personally as well as sending them out to the coast, her name was withheld until further investigation of the prisoner's story can be made. Gessel will undergo thorough questioning soon to find out what he knows of the killing of Taylor...
1922-03-20	SAYS HE SENT DRUGS  TO TAYLOR SUSPECT 'Scar-Face Tony' Believes Dope Ring' Member Slew Director for Reforming Actress. FINDS NO SOCIETY ADDICTS Dr. Simon Says Raid Netted No List of Prominent VictimsOnly Dregs Are Users.   Special Deputy Police Commissioner Carlton Simon said yesterday that Anthony Gessel, confessed opium user for twenty-five years, had told the police that he had supplied morphine to a movie actress mentioned in the William Desmond Taylor murder mystery, and that Taylor had been killed by a member of the Los Angeles dope ring when the director tried to prevent the sale of narcotics to this actress. Dr. Simon, who is in charge of the Narcotic Division, branded as "absurd" reports that Gessel had turned over a list of "prominent New Yorkers" who were his patrons, adding that "prominent persons are not drug addicts, and saying that Gessel's trade, as that of other narcotic vendors, was with the dregs of the White Light district. The addict, known as "Scar Face Tony," an ltalian-American, short and squat, with a fondness for good clothes, was arrested early yesterday by Detectives Riley and Moffat, who charged that he had sold them a "toy" of opium for $5 at Broadway and Fortyseventh Street. He was held in $1,500 bail by Magistrate Douras in West Side Court for trial at Special Sessions. "The arrest of Gessel," said Dr. Simon, "is an important one in the breaking of the drug traffic. He told me that he had supplied opium for about 1,000 opium parties staged in this city. He was what is known as a street man, who, because of his friendship with denizens of the White Light district and his knowledge of those he could trust in selling narcotics, was employed by larger dealers to dispose of their drugs. His trade was with those on the lowest rung of the theatrical ladder and with minor 'sports.' He did not sell to society people, and I'd like to take this opportunity to correct those lurid statements about drug-using by 'society.' People of the higher classes do not indulge in drugs, and Gessel never got nearer society than Broadway. "The man did not give any list of patrons. He was, in fact, very closemouthed. Only by appealing to his shrewdness in evading arrest-we had marked him as peddler for a long timedid I manage to get anything out of him. " When he mentioned the fact that he had been sending about $150 worth of morphine to the Hollywood movie actress at regular intervals. I asked him if he had anything to contribute in regard to the Taylor murder. He said that he had nothing definite, but said that for some time before the murder of the director he had not had any orders from this actress. Gessel said he believed that Taylor had been breaking her of the habit, and that one of the dope sellers in Los Angeles, who feared the loss of a lucrative customer, had murdered Taylor. "His statements about the murdered director and the cause of his murder were conjecture, and I don't know whether I'll forward the information to the Los Angeles District Attorney or not."
1922-03-24	The best thing about this Paramount picture at the Rivoli is the work of Betty Compson, reduced to a quite miraculous slenderness and making a particularly appealing figure as the wistful waif of Paris, associate of thieves and a thief herself, who is regenerated by her sufferings and newly aroused compassions as a nurse at the front in Flanders. The story is adapted from 'The Noose,' a novel by Constance Lindsay Skinner, by Monte M. Katterjohn and Julia Crawford Ivers, and bears the name as director of William D. Taylor, who was murdered in Los Angeles last month...'The Green Temptation' is an interesting story, well handled and possessing a strong sentimental appeal, although it is guiltless of anything but superficial significance. It is just an intelligently managed crook melodrama with a touch of refinement and polish. It is satisfactory theatrical entertainment, a skillfully contrived illusion. The story has some of the defects innate in the adapted novel, chiefly an embarrassing abundance of material. There are moments when it is difficult to readily identify the characters, although this defect is not nearly so emphatic as usual in screened novels...
1922-04-01	Dorothy Gish said the attacks upon picture actors and actresses have affected her keenly: 'When I walk down the street nowadays and someone recognizes me, I feel like turning my head so that I won't hear them say: 'Oh, there's another one of those picture actresses. I wonder when her story will be told on the front pages of the newspapers.' '
1922-04-01	Romance in the movie colony is so pale, these days. Nobody is admitting being engaged to wed. They seem to feel that it isn't proper to even be in love any more, since all this scandal has been stirred up in the film colony. Most of the girls are behaving like cloistered nuns, these days.
1922-04-01	--a leading banker is accused by his wife of illicit love affairs--a well- known minister with a family is arrested for white slavery--an eminent lawyer is mutilated by a husband for home-breaking. But does the world conclude that governors, or bankers, or ministers, or lawyers--as a class--are therefore rotten, that the whole profession is given to those practices of which one of its members has been accused or found guilty? No! The thinking world is too just--too sane. And yet, because two prominent figures in motion pictures have recently been the center of scandal, the entire profession has been put under a cloud. The reason for this inquiry is manifold: To begin with, Hollywood is the most talked-of city in America; it is a small community populated by famous people who exist in the white glare of a merciless spotlight. They have as much privacy in their work or lives as a Broadway traffic policeman. Moreover, the men and women who work in pictures are the most popular and intimately familiar figures in the nation's life. Also, the dishonest, scavenger press, seeing temporary profit in sensational smut, proceeds to butcher the motion pictures to make a journalistic holiday. Motion-picture scandals are exaggerated and dwelt upon, given exorbitant space, and played up with pictures and banner heads. Then again, certain despicable seekers for cheap and lurid publicity, in the motion-picture ranks, rush into print with their ideas, tales, suppositions and opinions. Furthermore, the public, too, is in large part to blame. It is human nature to create an idol and then to tear it down. From time immemorial idols were made to be raised and shattered. And so, as a result, a great industry is irreparably injured; the reputations of thousands of decent men and women are sullied; an entire community is dragged into the mire! It is a colossal and unforgivable injustice! I have personally visited Hollywood many times. I am thoroughly familiar with the motion-picture industry. I know as many of its people as anyone in the country. And this I can truthfully say: Never have I seen the immoral conditions to which the newspapers refer. And while there are members of the motion-picture profession who are addicted to vicious practices, the men and women--as a whole--are as decent and self- respecting as the men and women of any other profession. PHOTOPLAY is not posing as a defender of the motion pictures. It holds no brief to the purity of Hollywood. It prefers, in fact, to refrain from all discussion on the subject. But it can not sit by silently and behold both public and press besmirch with lies the entire rank and file of a great industry. This is why PHOTOPLAY has refused the recent frantic demands from newspapers for photographs of eminent actors and actresses, knowing the use to which they would be put. Vice is to be found everywhere--in every profession and in every city in the world. The motion-picture profession is neither better nor worse than any other. PHOTOPLAY asks nothing for motion pictures but justice--that simple, fine justice which the American public knows so well how to exercise.
1922-04-01	Dear Mr. Hays: You have just accepted a position which makes you the representative head of the motion picture art and industry. You are the ideal man to occupy that position. Your traits of character and your proven ability, sanity, directness and fearlessness qualify you for this great responsibility. I am taking the liberty of writing you a letter; and the things I am going to say to you are the outgrowth of a six years undivided association with the motion-picture industry--its leaders, its directors, and its stars. You are confronted by the biggest job in America. You hold in your hands, as a sculptor holds a piece of clay, an industry which wields perhaps a more direct and personal influence upon the public than any other in the United States. It has become a necessity in the lives of many millions, and because of its vastness and influence, is almost a public utility. You have it in your power to do a greater and finer service for this country than any other man today. You are, indeed, not merely face to face with a gigantic task--you have a sacred duty to perform as well. In motion pictures, as in all great industries, there are undesirables-- selfish vicious persons who work injury to everyone with whom they are associated. There is the unscrupulous producer who, for a temporary profit, makes his appeal to the baser instincts in human nature. There is the actor and the actress who live loose, immoral lives, and who thrive on scandal and lurid notoriety. And there is the exhibitor who attempts to capitalize this scandal and to benefit by this notoriety. (In Los Angeles, while the press was at the height of a recent orgy of sensationalism, a local theater threw across its entrance a large canvas banner bearing the words: 'I love you; I love you; I love you!' quoting a note which Mary Miles Minter wrote to Taylor, the murdered director.) There are the self-appointed guardians of public morals, who forget the spirit of our form of government and in their frenzy of egomania, busy themselves in bringing about censorship, or exercise it in such an autocratic manner that compared to them, the kaiser was a benign and humble ruler. Whenever a crime or a scandal connected with motion pictures has come to light, there have been those in various branches of the business who have at once rushed in and sought, through one means or another, to profit by it at the expense of the industry's reputation, scattering lies and accusations and innuendoes broadcast. These are the facts. What, then, can be done? Viewing the situation broadly, I believe that what motion pictures need at the present time, more than anything else, is a moral house-cleaning. They need it for their own good, as well as the public's. And you are the one man who can bring this about. It is you alone who can rehabilitate the good name of a great industry which has been dragged through the mire. First of all, you should call on producers to discharge all persons whose private lives and habits make them a menace to the industry. This is vital. When the Stillman scandal broke, the National City Bank dropped Stillman. Surely the picture industry can do as much for its own good name. Furthermore, you should eliminate all those persons who are eager to take advantage of the sensational publicity offered by any motion-picture scandal which gets into the papers. Moreover, in every motion-picture contract there should be a clause similar to the one in the new Goldwyn contracts, providing for the immediate discharge of any actor whose private life reflects discredit on the company. Your problem is to restrain not only the exhibitor, but the producer and the actor as well. It is a general moral house-cleaning that is needed. Then there is another point. One of the cardinal reasons why scandals like the Arbuckle and Taylor cases are possible, is that the motion-picture business has built up great public characters, thus making them easy targets for sensational journalism. This method of production has been wrong; for the publicity, advertising and expenditure should be spent on the pictures and not on the stars. And here again you can help by focusing interest and attention on the art of motion pictures and not merely upon personalities. Indeed, the time will probably come when personalities will be almost entirely obliterated, although you can never succeed in overshadowing the individual ability of the really great actress and actor. There is no need to go into the causes for the unfortunate condition of affairs which at present exists in the motion-picture industry. No one is directly to blame, for the industry and its problems are new, and certain recent results could not be foreseen and met. Both cause and effect are without precedent. Perhaps everyone has been a little to blame--the producer, who sat apathetically by and did nothing; the actor and actress, who were suddenly loaded with riches, and sought to enjoy them without counting the cost; the exhibitor, who gave no thought except to the box office; the newspapers, who played up the scandals for personal aggrandizement; the public, which was willing, even eager, to believe whatever it heard or read. But whatever the causes, the facts exist; and it is these which you, Mr. Hays, must face--and face fearlessly. The time has come to act, and I believe that you are capable of organizing the many factors of influence in America--producers, actors, directors, exhibitors, press and public--to join hands and work with you for a new ideal in motion pictures. PHOTOPLAY, for its part, will refuse to print any personality story about any motion-picture star, who is notoriously immoral, or whose actions are such as to reflect unfavorably on the industry. It is a Herculean task you have undertaken. You are going to find in the motion-picture industry the same trouble that has always existed--selfishness and cut-throat methods. Side by side with men of the highest of principles, you are going to find men who are the scum of the earth. But you will succeed. Neither you, nor anyone else will be able to make the motion-picture business perfect, any more than the railroad business, the steel business, the banking business, or the government is perfect. After all, just as sorrow and hardship build up character, so out of these tribulations will come a stronger and better business.
1922-04-01	TAYLOR GAVE TO ACTRESSES Expenses of $50,000 a Year Included presents, Administrator Says.   Los Angeles. March al. a fifty thousand dollars a year was spent  part. William Desmond Taylor, lilm irector, whose mysterious death by hooting February I, in his bachelor ungalow here, has baffied police, according to an announcement by the public prosecutor. An estate of Sadyoot remains, according to the accounting. Out of his many bills are to be paid, inalluding Ylyrie. so for a made tassel ourchased from a local jewelry store and at, too funeral expenses. Ilnvestigaion revealed that Taylor spent large stims in presents to motion picture a ctresses, according to the adminstrator.
1922-04-10	Los Angeles--Mabel Normand and John Waldron, manager of the Mack Sennett studios, today denied a report current in screen circles in the East that the comedienne had accepted $40,000 to cancel her contract with the Sennett corporation. Notoriety gained by Miss Normand in connection with the Taylor case was said to be responsible for the rumored story, Waldron said. 'How long does Miss Normand's present contract run?' he was asked. Waldron declined to answer. The present picture in which Miss Normand is starring--'Suzanna'--will be completed in a few weeks, it was said at the Mack Sennett studios. Miss Normand will leave for a vacation at that time, Waldron said. She plans to visit Europe.
1922-04-16	If any one pictures Gloria Swanson as a blase young woman, bored with everything life has to offer, he has only to hear her on the subject of going to Europe. She is as pleased as a youngster at his first circus, and as thrilled as any girl in the world would be at an opportunity of getting her first glimpse of Paris. I had not expected to see Gloria this trip. She was only in town from Wednesday until Saturday, but an unexpected meeting at the Famous Players- Lasky offices presented a chance to talk to her, and hear something of her plans for Europe. 'The one sad thing,' Gloria confessed, 'is leaving the baby for two months. Mr. Somborn has her with her nurse at his hotel. I thought it was a fair thing to do, but when I think how she will grow and how she will forget me in that time, I have a feeling I may be homesick. 'We better not talk about that,' she said. 'I suppose all mothers feel that way. She is such a gorgeous baby, so pretty and so responsive.' 'Where are you going and what are your plans?' an interruption that brought the proud mother of the most beautiful baby in the world back to the subject at hand. 'Seven days in Paris, four in London, two in Monte Carlo, two in Naples, one day in Florence and Venice, and four days in Berlin,' answered Miss Swanson. 'You see,' she laughed, 'I have our itinerary all down to a system. It's my very first visit to Europe and I do not want to miss a single thing. I am so thrilled I can hardly sleep at night. 'I shall probably travel around with a Baedecker in one hand and a sandwich in the other because I want to see Versailles, Malmaison, Westminster Abbey, the Louvre, the London Tower and all those historical places of interest I have read so much about, and I shall try to get in the races at London and the Grand Prix at Paris, and of course the Casino at Monte Carlo.' Shopping will be part of the program. Miss Swanson sailed yesterday morning on the Homeric with Mrs. Frank Urson, wife of Marshall Neilan's assistant director, and the two girls were planning where to shop in Paris, and how many Paris frocks they would bring home. 'One person tells me to shop one place and another says, 'Oh, I wouldn't go there, you will not find any exclusive styles,' so I have decided,' said Gloria, 'to select my own shop, and do a little reconnoitering on my own hook.' 'You would,' I said, and we both laughed. Gloria, the ambitious youngster who used to park her belongings outside my office door at the Essanay Film offices, when she was trying her wings in motion pictures for the first time, is not very different from the star of today. The young woman with everything at her feet. She is a little sadder, a little older, and has, of course, acquired more dignity and poise. But there is the same eagerness to learn and the same ambition to get to the tip top, and to leave no stone unturned to make her dreams come true. 'I like New York,' she said, looking out of the window down the crowded Fifth Avenue street. 'I like all the busy people, and all the signs of energy and life. I get tired of California. There isn't much out there but work and home, no theatres and no scenes of activity like that. Of course I suppose if I lived here I should feel I have the two big things, my work and my child--that is all any one can ask for. We all have our disappointments, and mine are no more bitter than other peoples, only things do not always turn out as one expects.' 'But you have been very lucky?' 'In some ways,' she answered. Miss Swanson said all the girls who met her asked about Rudolph Valentino. 'He played opposite me in my last picture, 'The Gilded Cage' [Beyond the Rocks], and if these questions concerning him are any criterion or indication of his popularity, they will all rush to see him when the picture is released. They asked me how he makes love and a few more equally interesting questions. I suppose 'The Sheik' had something to do with this interest.' Gloria looked very well in a mink coat, a grey frock with hat and shoes to match, and some curious amber earrings and necklace. She always has the air of being perfectly groomed, and only in the Cecil De Mille pictures does she affect bizarre costumes and unusual hair dressing. She is and always was one of the best dressed women off the screen, which is saying something. Many a star might qualify for that distinction on the screen but not many in their regular street garb. As Gloria rushed to join her friends I could not help thinking Paris would not have anything on the Rue de la Paix any better gowned or smarter than Gloria.
1922-05-01	During the investigation in the Taylor murder case, when each day the sensational newspapers would come out with fresh 'clues' and scandals only to cast them aside the day following for new ones, a certain noted motion picture star was approached by reporters of a Los Angeles daily with an interesting proposition. They wanted him to 'disappear' over the Mexican border so that the paper might run a sensational story fixing the guilt temporarily upon him. Of course, they said, he could return immediately and be cleared by an alibi. The idea behind the proposition was that the star would get a lot of free publicity and the newspaper would get a corking new yarn to excite the fans--and, consequently, sell the paper. But they picked on the wrong star. The gentleman they chose--we will call him Mr. M. [8]--hurled the reporters out of the room. Another paper got wind of the stunt and attempted to interview Mr. M., but he refused on the ground that too much sensational stuff had been woven about the unfortunate tragedy.
1922-05-01	The entire film colony of Hollywood has felt the deepest sorrow and depression over the recent death of Kathlyn Williams' son. The boy was sixteen, a student at the Hollywood High School, and he passed on during the 'flu' epidemic that invaded the west. Kathlyn Williams is married to Charles Eyton, manager of the Lasky studio. The actress was prostrated at her home by the boy's death. He was her only child. [The child was from an earlier marriage, to Victor Kainer.]
1922-05-07	If all writers were able to sell their ideas with as little ceremony as Clara Beranger did when William De Mille handed her a pencil and paper to write the plot of 'Notoriety,' lest one solitary scene should escape her memory, the old sob tales of crackers in a garret would be out of date. Miss Beranger, who is now working as busily as our old friend the bee to get ready to take a script of 'Clarence' to the Coast next week, told us something of how she happened to write her original. 'I had been reading numerous scandals in the papers, and I marveled at the amount of space given these unsavory tales, and the thought came to me, these women mixed up in these scandals can never wash their skirts clean, even though they are innocent of wrong doing. Why not write a scenario showing how impossible it is for a girl to get back her standing once her precious name is headlined throughout the country. I told Mr. De Mille such a picture would have interest. He told me to stop everything and write a synopsis to file with Frank Woods, the scenario editor. I filed my synopsis and a few weeks later completed the scenario.' ''Notoriety,'' Miss Beranger explained, 'had the alternate title of 'Limelight,' but when Mr. De Mille started casting and making arrangements for its production he chose my first title. Bebe Daniels will play the role of the girl who is innocently dragged into a sensational murder case, and afterward asked by the father of the boy she loves, to give him up because she is unfit to marry him. ''I will not give him up,' the girl cries. 'I have done no wrong and I shall clear my name and marry him' 'Then,' said Miss Beranger, 'I show how impossible it is for her to convince the world she is the same girl she was before her name bas bandied about as common property.' 'Aren't you eager to start work on this pet child of yours?' Miss Beranger was asked. 'Naturally,' she said, 'but 'Clarence' will be produced before 'Notoriety' goes into work. I will be out in California when Mr. De Mille begins operations. Under my old contract I furnished eight continuities a year; now that I work only for William De Mille I only write four. That gives me an opportunity to see my work through from the story to the screen. It makes it possible for me to go over my script scene by scene with the producer, so he can make the picture with almost no changes. In the old days I had to keep my nose to the grindstone continually so as to finish the eight pictures in time for the different directors for whom I was writing.'...
1922-05-13	'Oh, but did you hear about Bebe Daniels' back-fire at Mary Miles Minter! It seems that Mary had very deeply offended Bebe by saying something awfully catty to her at a party one night right before everybody. Well, Bebe is the sweetest girl in the world, and beloved by everybody, but she won't stand everything. 'It all happened out at Lottie Pickford's wedding, while the audience was gossiping the way a crowd always does while they're waiting for the holy bans of matrimony to be pronounced, and before the bride and groom come gliding down the aisle. Mary Minter was calling across to Mary Pickford, 'You know, on my second trip to Europe--' and then went on, sort of showing off. It all began to get on Bebe's nerves. She called across to Lila Lee-- 'Oh, dearie, do you remember our seventh trip to Europe?' 'Oh, no,' Lila played right up, 'it wasn't our seventh trip; it was our ninth trip!' The crowd around was listening by this time, and Mary Minter had begun to blush, realizing that she was being kidded.
1922-05-17	Telegrams of condolence from artists, actors and musicians in all parts of the country poured in yesterday when funeral services were held at Oakland for Harry H. Williams, perhaps America's best known writer of popular songs, composer of 'In the Shade of the Old Apple Tree,' 'I'm Afraid to Go Home in the Dark, ' 'Mickey' and other numbers. Williams died at Merritt hospital, Oakland, Monday, at the age of 46, and was buried yesterday afternoon at a quiet ceremony attended by relatives and the few friends he knew in this part of the state. He was taken ill with influenza in New York, but appeared convalescent. On the way to the coast he suffered a relapse and upon arrival in Oakland developed pneumonia, which caused his death. [The obituary in the NEW YORK CLIPPER (May 24, 1922) stated that Williams had been in ill health and suffering from tuberculosis for some time.] ...Williams wrote 600 songs, in addition to many light operas and plays which were highly successful. 'The Broken Idol' ran six months in New York and 'The Belle of Avenue A' was a great musical comedy success. Several years ago he moved to Los Angeles, where the motion pictures engaged much of his attention. He directed comedies for Mack Sennett, handling such stars as Buster Keaton, Fatty Arbuckle, Mack Swain and others. However, he never abandoned the writing of songs.
1922-05-20	The Civil Service Commission yesterday took under consideration the letter from Dist.-Atty. Woolwine giving his reasons for dismissing Miss Ida Wright Jones from his employ. The commissioners would not indicate what if any action would be taken in the matter. The commission would either have to approve or disapprove of Mr. Woolwine's action in dismissing Miss Jones, which was based on the report that she was preparing to sell an affidavit to his political enemies for $10,00 to the effect that she had been intimate with him. Miss Jones has not petitioned for a hearing looking to her reinstatement. She was not represented at the meeting of the commissioners yesterday.
1922-05-25	Taylor Clue Sought in Pictures LOS ANGELES, May 24.A new clew was added to the countless theories for the murder of William Desmond Taylor, motion picture director, who was slain here on Feb. 1, when District Attorney Woolwine yesterday withdrew from the sale of personal property of the dead man a number of photographs intended for sale. "They may be evidence," it was said in explanation.
1922-05-26	Boasted of Slaying Taylor Is Charge Made Against Poughkeepsie Prisoner by Driver   POUGHEEEPSIE, N.Y., May 25. Frank A. Doran, who said he came from Chicago, was lodged in the Dutchess County Tail today on complaint of Herbert Barnhart, a taxi driver from Waterbury, Conn., whe told the authorities that during a pistol-enforeed drive Doran had boasted of killing William Desmond Taylor, Los Angeles motion picture director. Doran was held on a charge of felonious assault, the county officials taking little stock in his alleged attempt to connect himself with the Taylor slaying. "Sheriff Eyerett B. Davis was in his office here this morning when Barnhart telephoned from Wappingers Falls, twenty miles south. The chauffeur told the Sheriff that a man known only as "Mac" had hired his taxi at Waterbury and, pointing a pistol at him, directed him to drive "to the Hudson River." Near Fishkill village, a few miles southeast of Wappingers-Falls, the fare had alighted and disappeared in a woods. When Sheriff Davis heard the remark about the Taylor murder, he called Deputies-Close, Linimer, Abecac and Cronwell and picking up Deputy Baum at Fishkili Headed for the woods. While the posse, armed with shota guns, rifles and revolvers was tramping through the woods, Doran came out on the highway and hailed a passing car for a ride into Fishkill village. "The driver of the car became suspicious of his passenger and halted the automolbile in front of the headquarters of the   State Troopers. They held Doran until Sheriff Davis and his party arrived. At Poughkeepsie, the Sheriff examined Doran, but got little out of him beyond the fact that he came from Chicago and was a friend of Frank Ryan, whom he described as a labor leader there. Doran denied having mentioned the Taylor killing to Barnhart. Doran, who is close to six feet in height, is 30 years old and of sandy complexion and hair. A tattoo mark-hearts united, with a cirelet of olive leaves-is on his left forearm. He had between 200 and 300 pennies. He was unarmed when the troopers searched him. CHICAGO, May 25 -Frank Doran of 1,101 Washington Boulevard was arrested here in 1918 and sentenced to three months in the Bridewell for passing a bogus check on William Turner. In 1918 his description was 27 years old, 5 feet 8 1/2 inches in height, dark chestnut hair: no tattoo marks. Special to The New York Timess LOS ANGELES, May 25 -Descriptions of Frank A. Doran, telegraphed here 'tonight, disclosed that the Poughkeepsie captive resembles in some respects Edward F. Sands, missing Taylor butler. Sands, however, had no, tattoo marks and was considerably heavier than Doran. District Attorney Woolwine said he had no word from Poughkeepsie and would say nothing until he recelved an official description of Doran from the Dutchess, County. Sheriff.
1922-05-27	WANT DORAN IN CHICAGO. Alleged Self-styled Taylor Slayer Accused of Labor War Murders. POUGHKEEPSIE, N. Y. May 26.District Attorney Aldrich of Dutchess County today received a telegram from District Attorney Woolwine of Los Angeles, asking that a statement be obtained here from Frank Doran, held here on a charge of holding up a taxi driver, who asserts that Doran boasted of being the slayer of William Desmond Taylor, the movie director. Doran denies this. Chief of Detectives Hughes of Chicago also telegraphed to District Attorney Aldrich requesting that Doran be held at any costs, as he was wanted there on a murder charge. Doran today admitted being in Los Angeles in 1915 and 1917, and would not deny having known Taylor, the authorities say. CHICAGO. May 26  Frank Davis, alias Frank Doran held in Poughkeepsie, is wanted here for alleged complicity in the murders of Police Lieutenant Lyons and Patrolman Moeller during the round-up of labor leaders.
1922-05-28	DENIES IMPLICATING DORAN. Poughkeepsle Dlstrict Attorney Refutes Statement Regarding Taylor Murder.   POUGHKEEPSIE, N. Y., May 27.County authorities announced here today that developments in the case of Frank Doran being held here on a charge of holding up a taxi driver, led them to believe that Doran was either a party to the murder of William Desmond Taylor, the Los Angeles movie director, or had important information concerning the crime,  The authorities refused to state the source of their information. Doran refused to make any statement. It was definitely learned that Doran is not the man sought in Chicago for the murder of two policemen during the labor outrages. Speaking on the long-distance telephone at Poughkeepsie last night, Raymond E. Aldrich, District Attorney of Dutchess County, said: "There are ne developments connecting Doran with the murder of William Desmond Taglor in any way. Any report of that kind is 'bunk'. I have no such information, and neither has any other county official here. I have no new information. Doran is in jail on a charge of assault, and he still denies that he told the taxi driver, who is the complainant, that he knew anything at all about the Taylor case."   
1922-06-01	Highly colored and improbable, but if you aren't too literal-minded you will get an average amount of enjoyment out of the hectic adventures of Betty Compson, a beautiful crook, Theodore Kosloff--a great actor, by the way--as a master robber, and Mahlon Hamilton as the rescuing angel. Betty reforms but Theodore doesn't, and then the fun begins.
1922-06-09	With reservations all booked for the Aquitania, it is high time Mabel Normand is arriving here if she expects to sail June 13. She is due this morning, having spent a part of yesterday in Chicago, where she was interviewed by the newspapers on the William Desmond Taylor murder. She said in an interview she expected to consult Mr. Sennett in New York, and her plans depended largely upon his verdict. If he told her to go back to the coast she would return immediately and begin work, while if he said she should stay in the East she would follow his instructions. One of the evening papers carried an interview with Miss Normand and spoke of her as sadder since her unpleasant experience in the Taylor case.
1922-06-14	Sailing quietly, her departure known only to a few intimate friends, Mabel Normand, film star, was one of the cabin passengers on the Aquitania of the Cunard Line, which left the foot of West Fourteenth street yesterday for Cherbourg and Southampton. With her was a friend, Miss Juliet Courtial [sic]. Miss Normand did not reach the slip until just a few minutes before the sailing hour and parried all questions asked as to the shooting of Taylor, the film director. 'Please don't discuss that,' she said. 'I've been running away from it for months. That is one of the reasons I am going away to get a rest.' She said she was going to London to meet her mother and would also go to Paris and Berlin. She said she would have sailed on June 6, but while making the film 'Suzanne,' a Spanish picture, holy Week intervened and no work was done on the picture during that time. She said she would return in August and start work in September on another picture in Los Angeles. She was on the passenger list as Miss Mabel 'Norman.'
1922-06-23	Y The picture is a frank sentimental melodrama without pretention to anything else. The action is built up around the troubles of a working girl (a shop girl at that), and it follows in design a host of old fashioned plays and pictures that fall in the same category. It's frank, candid fiction without any subtle relation to life and so makes its appeal to the more elemental tastes of the public. It is clean straightaway romance and serves its purpose satisfactory, even if it is not particularly significant in purpose and meaning. The modern scenario writers have discussed these social problems in rather a more subtle manner than the melodrama writers of ten years ago when 'Bertha the Sewing Machine Girl' was the type. Socialism and parlor Bolshevism have changed the terms and the technique somewhat but the material is much the same. In the present case the scenario writer and the director have reverted to the old style. Here we have the poor working girl struggling against the dishonorable plottings of her rich employer, trying to remain straight under the temptation of his proffered luxury. The problem remains fixed, only the medium of dramatic discussion has changed and this production comes on the screen as a rather crude and old fashioned affair. Dealing in old fashioned materials, it is only natural that Taylor made use of the old fashioned devises. For example his shop girl wears one of those short length, blonde wigs that used to be the trade mark of young beauty in distress; the heroine lives in squalor under the patronage of a drunken uncle and a bullying aunt and the surroundings are a tenement house in the slums. All the paraphernalia of the melodrama of a generation ago is present...It's all family story paper type of fiction rather than the modern effort to reflect real life. The picture has theatrical force, but it is eminently lacking in realism. It is possible that a certain element of the fan public likes its drama in more or less childish terms, but the drift has been away from the obvious to the subtly realistic. We do not take our heroines any more as altogether, inhumanly good and our villains as unqualifiedly viciously worthless. We prefer some semblance of shading between good and bad such as everyday experience has taught us is the state of the world rather than the stage creations...This picture goes back to the old technique and it comes before as raw and unconvincing...
1922-06-24	...Many of the serious artists of motion pictures resent the 'intrusion' of innumerable New York chorus girls who have come to Hollywood to live the easy, moneyed life that the position of leading woman in film productions offers. These women are not in pictures because of their love of Art. They, for the most part, belong to the ultra-fast set and can be seen in the various cafes dancing hilariously and exploiting their personal charms with utter abandon. Two, in particular, are notorious drunkards and have hardly ever been sober when seen publicly. Another is a drug addict admittedly, but the authorities as yet have not been able to 'get the goods' directly on her. And there is small contingent of the Hollywoodites who are sorely addicted to the dangerous dream powders. It is these, in particular, that the Hays investigators are investigating. A short time ago Federal officers got a 'tip' that a very high-salaried, very well-known female star who is a drug user, could be caught with narcotics in her vanity bag. It was impossible to arrest her merely on suspicion, however, and to search her without direct cause. However, she was shadowed for several days by narcotic squad agents, and finally, under the guise of motorcycle policemen, they managed to catch her speeding in her automobile. She was arrested and taken to police headquarters. There she was searched, and the narcotics, as reported, were found in her handbag. No publicity ever resulted, due to the quick work of the young woman's attorneys and to the fact that she had unlimited wealth behind her. A heavy fine was paid, and she has been put under surveillance. If she does not take 'the cure' her contract will be broken, she has been told, and she has been given a specified length of time in which to reform. Narcotic purveyors are believed to have figured singularly in the William Desmond Taylor murder. Certain friends of his were known users of drugs, and it is a police theory that, because he threatened to expose members of a drug-selling ring, he was assassinated. Until comparatively recently a tall, gaunt Negro who always carried a small, black, Boston bag was a frequent visitor to several studio 'lots,' where admittance is difficult and well-nigh impossible. Yet, when he would appear, he would be admitted without question. Silently he would meet specified individuals, there would be a hushed conference and a cloistered visit, and he would disappear as silently as he had come. His calls were made at regular intervals. No questions were asked. But not long ago he stopped 'making his rounds.' No one has seen him, and his whereabouts are now unknown. And, also, reports show that there is a handsomely-appointed residence, located in the heart of Hollywood, where the pungent fumes of opium may be detected seeping out through crevices in windows and doors that are hung with perfume-saturated drapes and curtains. Only a small percentage of this establishment's patrons have been film people. A prominent actress and a well-known actor, however, have been 'on the books' as its habitues, going there at scheduled intervals and making appointments precisely as if they were seeking consultation with a physician. The interior of this place is elaborately-luxuriously furnished. The richest of Oriental rugs cover the floor; the most expensive furniture is everywhere noticeable. Extremely heavy velvet drapes curtain the windows, and from these comes an almost-overpowering odor of heavy perfume, put there to drown the deadly, tell-tale fumes of opium. You go into a large, semi-dark room, appointed like a parlor. Admittance to the establishment is exclusively by card, which a Negro maid takes and immediately thereafter disappears. In the main room one procures the narcotics by swinging back a picture from the wall. Which reveals a small grating, through which the transaction, the 'promotion,' is made. And elaborately-furnished upstairs rooms provide the 'cots' or 'bunks' for the smokers to cook and inhale their potion--and sleep for several hours the weird, untroubled sleep of the hop eater...
1922-07-01	The appointment for an interview was made for an afternoon. Mabel declared she would be delighted to have 'a good talk.' Now it is a well-known fact that Mabel Normand of all stars cares the least about publicity. She is renowned for her ability to elude personal appearances, photographers, interviewers and all that pertains to publicity. Yet such is the vanity of man that he always makes an exception of himself. Besides, Mabel had seemed so enthusiastically gracious. I arrived at Mabel's home at the hour designated. Mabel had gone to the studio. I went to the studio. Mabel had gone home. I went to her home. Mabel had not returned. I 'phoned the next day. I 'phoned regularly every day for a week. Mabel was always out. I seriously considered sending her a phonograph record of 'Home, Sweet Home.' Finally I caught her on the wire. Before I had a chance to demand an explanation, she cried-- 'Why, where have you been? I've been trying and trying to get you-- 'phoning and 'phoning--when are you coming to see me? Quite overcome by this coup d'etat, I murmured weakly, 'Any time.' 'Tomorrow morning--can you make it early?' she cried eagerly. I acquiesced with the feeling that Mabel would pace the floor, sleepless, until I had arrived. The next morning, after I had shaved with abnormal care, Mabel's secretary 'phoned to say that Mabel had been called away on urgent matters. Would I make the appointment for the studio the following day at eleven? I was at the studio at eleven. I waited--and waited. For two hours I waited. All the while I plotted what I would say as I stalked out, leaving her an uninterviewed and stricken woman. Finally I espied her through the window. She was humming to herself as she leisurely strolled past the door of the publicity office in the direction of her dressing room. The publicity man, in high confusion, rushed out to tell her that I was waiting. She looked surprised, as though the visit were totally unexpected. Then she turned and entered the room. At the threshold she paused, regarding me silently with a wide-eyed innocence. Without taking her eyes off my glowering countenance she moved solemnly toward me, then stopped short-- 'Kiss me!' she commanded. As I showed signs of rallying, she swiftly changed the order to-- 'Let's have some pie and coca-cola--I'm hungry, aren't you?'
1922-08-06	London, July 19--Mabel Normand has been to London, and she could have had as much publicity as that given here to Mary Pickford, had she wanted it. But she preferred to keep out of the limelight, mainly because she expected everybody would be wanting her to tell all she knew about the murder of William D. Taylor. While in London therefore she declined dinners and interviews as much as possible, and just went about seeing the sights and buying things. From London she went to Paris, where in one of the very few interviews she has given she told a reporter that she was enamored of London, that she loved its policemen and its climate, and that she was 'going right back there' as soon as she could.
1922-08-13	After Fred Niblo made 'The Mark of Zorro' and 'The Three Musketeers,' two screen hits in rapid succession, the wise-acres leaned back in their comfortable arm chairs and, drawing a long breath, said: 'He cannot do it again.' Then 'Blood and Sand' burst across the Broadway film horizon in a skyrocket of phenomenal glory, and the film world took another deep breath and said with awe: 'He has done it'--wondering what secret method he had used to bring this miracle to pass. And now Mr. Niblo has come to New York to arrange for distribution with Metro of the productions to be made by his own company. Broadway was his playground for a great many years and his coming and going while events of interest in the past were by no means cause for any special demonstration. As George Cohan's brother-in-law and an actor himself of ability, Fred Niblo has always had a host of friends and admirers, but he was never regarded in the past as one for whom the velvet carpet should be laid. But with three huge pictorial successes to his credit his arrival in Manhattan this time has equaled the visit of a foreign potentate--and the town is his. Fortunately he has a rare sense of humor and an idea of the fitness of things, so that all this attention hasn't turned his head and hasn't even changed his attitude toward life. Having known Enid Bennett, the attractive and lovable wife of this famous one ever since she came to this country, and won all hearts by her quaint manners and her English accent, I was curious to meet her husband--the director of the hour. An occasion was provided when Metro entertained Mr. Niblo at a luncheon. Just by way of showing the interest every one feels in his work every seat at the table was occupied with film writers, all eager to hear from his own lips how he was able to make the grade three times in succession. 'I had to learn to make pictures,' he said, after we were seated at the table and he had listened to the united praise of some thirty people. 'After I married Miss Bennett, I gave up the stage to direct her. Some of those first pictures were pretty bad, but by hard work and by profiting by past mistakes and applying my knowledge of the theatre, I was able to overcome some of the things that interfered with my progress as a director in the beginning.' This admission was only obtained after considerable coaxing. Fred Niblo doesn't talk about himself. He doesn't swagger and he isn't the type of director who wears puttees and affects a soft silk shirt and flowing tie just to look the part. He is a sincere, real person, who is honestly trying to keep his place at the top of the ladder by hard work. He doesn't tell how he had to teach the actor all he knows, and what difficulty he had in getting the cameraman to get certain effects. In all the conversation he did not say any words that detracted from the glory of any one who had a part in 'Blood and Sand.' He spoke of Rodolph Valentino in the highest terms, both as actor an a man. June Mathis's faithfulness to the author's text and her genius in writing continuity came in for his earnest praise. Douglas Farirbanks's knowledge of the techniques of films and his ability to make pictures was another subject to which Mr. Niblo warmed, giving Doug the lion's share of credit for 'Zorro' and 'Musketeers.' While Mr. Niblo is full of enthusiasm and high hopes for his future work, he isn't carried away with his own importance and an idea that he has conquered the film world. Our conversation was punctuated with talk of Enid and the baby. The baby is a year old now and her father admits she is probably the finest young lady in captivity. As for Enid--he doesn't care how much people talk of her beauty and charm. It's a subject that does not bore him. Although Mr. Niblo admits Miss Bennett was instrumental in getting him to come into pictures, he had considerable experience making travelogues. During the lifetime of Josephine Cohan, his first wife, he traveled in Africa, and in remote spots in this uncivilized country he was able to obtain some exceptional films. He says he would probably have continued to give Burton Holmes a race for his money, if his funds had not given out and he and his wife had to return to the States to get some more of that necessary article--U. S. dollars. The luncheon brought forth the interesting news that the motion picture rights to 'Captain Applejack' have been purchased for Mr. Niblo and will serve as his first independent production. 'At first I was a little afraid of 'Applejack,'' he said. 'It is a delicate thing that requires careful handling. The loss of the dialogue may affect its value, too, but I believe it will make an unusual picture. I want to make it as a straight story without any obvious comedy.' Mr. Niblo said the part where Wallace Eddinger kills the Chinaman in a dream will have to be eliminated to please the 'wrecking crew'--that elegant phrase meaning the w. k. censor board. 'We always keep the 'wrecking crew' in mind,' he said. 'We had some thrilling scenes in the bull fight in 'Blood and Sand,' when Valentino really struggles with the bull, but we were afraid of the censorial scissors and so we cut all that stuff out before they had a chance to ruin the continuity of our picture' 'Captain Applejack' will be followed by three other equally well known stage plays, and if Fred Niblo continues smashing records as a director-- well, we shall have him in a class by himself. He doesn't dare hope to have all his productions 100 per cent, that is too much to expect, but he is going to try mighty hard to come as near that average as is humanly possible. And just to prove Mr. Niblo finds other subjects beside his own skill worth discussing he had many pleasant things to say about 'The Tailor Made Man,' Charles Ray's next picture. He also said he hoped to direct Mr. Ray in a picture some day. He considers him one of the best actors on the screen and a star whose future will continue to be one of the bright spots in the industry. Tomorrow Mr. Niblo will leave the scene of all this glory and hit the trail back to Enid and the baby and work. He promises to come again and bring them with him next time.
1922-08-19	I have been in hell! I have plumbed the utmost depths of human degradation. I have seen women's souls stripped stark naked. I have been face to face with humanity at its worst. And I have met the most perfect kindness and sympathy it has ever been my lot to experience. I have been in jail. I did not visit the jail as a privileged guest. I went as a criminal, serving a sentence. I was arrested, charged with simple larceny, tried, convicted and sentenced to ten days in prison. I served three days and three nights of that sentence--three depressing days and three horrible nights. I wore the prison garb and ate--or tried to eat--the prison fare. And I know, from personal experience, just what 'prison hysteria' is. I am a scenario writer. Complete knowledge of my subject is a requisite of my work. It was in search of this knowledge that I went to prison. I found it. In the photoplay that I am writing for Cecil B. De Mille's production, in the near future, the chief feminine character is sentenced to prison for manslaughter. 'Manslaughter' is the title of the story. The girl goes to prison a selfish egotist. She emerges completely changed. In order that I might understand the influences at work on this character during her prison stay, I, too, went to jail. When I decided to make this experiment, I selected the Detroit House of Correction as the institution that would best serve my purpose. The name is a misnomer. It is not a reform school. Instead, it is a penitentiary-- a penitentiary that has the unique distinction of housing Michigan's Federal feminine offenders of every type of crime--State prisoners, County prisoners and the City of Detroit's municipal prisoners and doing all this in a fashion that compares favorably with the Middle Ages. There were several reasons for this choice. One was the sinister reputation of the institution. The second was that this is the only jail in the country where petty criminals are confined with those serving sentence for manslaughter. Another was that my family numbers among its friends-- a man formerly prominent in the administration of the Detroit prison. This individual was the only person whom I took into my confidence. I wished to have his aid in securing my release, should the experience become unbearable. With the exception of this man, no one connected with the experiment knew that I was not in fact 'Angel Brown.' It was under this name that I 'operated' when I stole a fur neck piece of nominal value from a woman of my family's acquaintance who was living at the Hotel Statler. She reported her loss to the house detective and I was arrested before I had left the building. Hailed into court, I gave my name as 'Angel Brown' from San Francisco, and was charged with simple larceny. I pleaded guilty to the charge and was sentenced to a fine of ten dollars or the alternative of ten days in the Detroit House of Correction. On my statement that I did not have the money to pay the fine, I was turned over to a police officer with instructions to commit me to jail. Just at this point, all my plans were threatened by a big fatherly Irish policeman who was detailed to conduct me to the prison. On our way down to the alley where the patrolwagon was to meet us, he said: 'This is your first time up, isn't it, little girl?' I assured him that it was. 'Isn't there anyone you know who will put up the money and keep you out of jail?' There was no one, I declared. 'I hate to see you go to that place. You wait right here'--and he pushed me through a door into a bare waiting room on the level with the jail alley--'I think I know a man who will lend us the money.' My heart sank. After all my trouble to get into jail, my plans were about to be frustrated by the kind heart of a well-meaning policeman! My good-natured policeman soon returned with failure written all over his kindly features. His friend was unable to help. There was nothing else to do but load me into the 'Black Maria' and send me on my way. He had no suspicion that I was thanking Providence for his failure. I arrived at the jail late in the afternoon. My guardian turned me over to the chief matron, who knew me only as a thief, and the iron bars figuratively and literally closed behind me. There followed the formality of booking me. My name and sentence were the outstanding facts noted by the matron's secretary, a trusty serving a long term. After this I was stripped to the skin and searched for narcotics. They even took down my hair and made a painstaking examination of it. When it came to selecting my prison garb, I was allowed to choose between long and short-sleeved underwear. I chose the long, for it was December and cold. With it went the faded gingham coverall, prison-made and drab. Despite the coldness of the weather, this garment had short sleeves. I selected my footwear from a great pile of shoes that occupied one corner of the matron's office. My choice fell upon a pair of dirty misshapen things that fitted approximately and had been splashed with paint and whitewash at one time in the recent past. From the office, I was conducted by the trusty to the cell assigned to me. It was on the second tier of the cell-block which consisted of four tiers of twenty cells each--accommodations for eighty prisoners. And at the time of my incarceration, the jail contained one hundred and forty women prisoners. Beds in the corridors supplied sleeping accommodations for those not assigned to cells. White and black, petty criminals and murderesses sleep, eat and work, side by side. The cell into which I was ushered was without a window and measured approximately six feet in length, six feet in height, and not over five feet in width. Most of this room was occupied by my bunk bearing a straw mattress, blankets and prison-made linen, but no pillow. This and a broken- down chair, tin wash basin and pitcher and pail were the sole furnishings. I made my prison debut in the midst of the so-called recreation hour. This is the period in late afternoon when the girls, having finished a day's work in the shops, are permitted to wander about the corridor-like space that surrounds the cell-block itself. This space is called the recreation room, although there is no semblance of recreation facilities, and was very cold. Two hard benches and a few straight kitchen chairs and one small table constituted the furnishings, and I saw no evidence of any books or literature. On the particular day that I arrived, the girls were in the chapel of prison viewing a motion picture. The picture was a cheap industrial film, showing the making of a newspaper and Panama Canal, badly made and badly photographed. I think a strapping negro girl voiced the opinion of the majority when at the conclusion of the picture, she said: 'My Gawd, why don't they give us a love story once-in-a-while!' I had heard that clever crooks never talked or made intimates and that the common criminals respected the mental superiority of those who could resist the temptation to gossip about anything and everything. I was relying on this fact to carry me safely through the shoals of cross-examination on the part of my cell mates. It was fortunate that I adopted this attitude. I had hardly returned to my cell before a delegation of curious visitors dropped in to find out all about me and to get the latest news from the outside. Everyone wanted to know, first of all, where I came from. Every single one of them tremendously anxious to hear the news from their own home town. Since I claimed San Francisco as my home, I disappointed them all. And it did disappoint them. One girl, speaking for herself spoke for them all when she demanded: 'Hell, I thought you was from Flint.' My refusal to talk won me immediate respect. And when it was nosed around that I had been caught 'working' the Hotel Statler, single-handed, I became a near-heroine. The Statler detective system is known and feared by all criminals, I learned. My supposed consummate nerve won their respect. But if I kept silent, no one else did. Apparently everybody talked all the time, calling loudly back and forth from cell to cell. It is part of the hysteria of the place. Speech relieves the tension that they are all under, consciously or unconsciously. Supper interrupted the cross-examination. We filed into the long dining room and I faced my first prison meal. Long wooden tables and benches were the chief articles of furniture in this room. Some one with a sense of humor had posted a large sign at one and of the room commanding silence, but the babble of voices and the clatter or granite-ware dishes continued at fever heat throughout every meal. Supper consisted of a greasy soup that had soured; two pieces of white bread without butter; a mug of some mysterious black liquid erroneously named coffee. I believe that I can eat any kind of food that is fit for human consumption, but there are limits; and this meal and its successors went beyond that limit. Supper over, we arose on signal from the presiding matron and filed back to our cells. As I entered mine, the door banged shut behind me and locked. Then I began my first night in jail. For a time the hysterical racket that had gone on steadily since my advent continued. When it subsided a little I threw myself on the bunk and amused myself by analyzing my emotions of the day. Eventually I dropped into a fitful sleep. How long I slept I have no means of knowing, but it could not have been more than a few hours. I was awakened by a peculiar crawling sensation that meant but one thing--vermin! There was no more sleep for me that night. Wide-eyed, I sat on the edge of my bunk and prayed for daylight. I have heard and read much of the terrible feeling of being shut in, buried alive and suffocated that prisoners undergo during their first night in prison, but until the time of my own experience, I believe it to be largely imaginative. It is not. It is the most real thing in the world. I felt that the walls of my tiny, windowless cell were slowly closing in on me--I could not breathe. The close cell, cleaned with a sickening disinfectant seemed, to strangle me. There are no words to picture the suffocating horror that envelops one at this time. Hysteria succeeds reason--I wanted to scream and beat my head against the stone walls of the cell--anything to push them away. Only one tiny portion of my brain remained rational. It was this tiny control center that kept me from going stark, staring mad for the time, at least. In spite of this semi-control, by four o'clock in the morning I was on the verge of panic. Partly in an effort to relieve the tension and partly in search of information regarding prison routine, I feigned sickness and shouted for assistance. I succeeded in attracting the attention of a trusty who was detailed to nurse service. She made a sympathetic effort to diagnose my trouble, but she was unable to render any real assistance. At my insistence, she summoned the night matron and I told my troubles to her. She explained that the jail hospital was closed for the night; that the chief matron was the only one who could open my cell door, even for sickness; and that this lady could never be disturbed until she reached her office at nine o'clock in the morning. That meant that if I was in danger of death I could go ahead and die without medical aid before nine A. M.! The night matron even refused me a piece of paper to fan myself with. Throughout my feigned illness, the neighboring prisoners kept up a perfect bombardment of encouragement and sympathy. The nurse-trusty was infinitely sympathetic, but she was powerless to aid. This excitement served to combat the evil atmosphere of the night, but daylight seemed to be ages away. And it was not until we were released about eight for breakfast that I succeeded in ridding myself of the hysterical feeling. Some time between eight and eight-thirty--at the discretion of the matron--we were freed from our cells. En route to breakfast we made our toilettes--such as they were. Inasmuch as toothbrushes, toothpaste, combs and soap were absolutely forbidden, this was an exceedingly sketchy affair. There were woman in that prison who had not had a comb in their hair for months. They kept it in place with string, bits of hairpin, or anything else that could be adopted to the purpose. A trough into which all the prison filth is emptied by the prisoners--also en route to breakfast--does not add to one's grooming. From this service, we marched to the meal itself. Like its predecessor, it was inedible as far as I was concerned, at least. The same two pieces of bread, the same nameless black liquid, or the alternative of bluish white milk, and a watery fluid in which a few grains of some cereal were floating made up the menu. I counted the cereal grains--I think they were rice--and found six in my dish. Breakfast over, we marched to the shops. We were set to work making cane and reed chair seats. In other departments of this same shop, brushes are made and the prison tailoring shop turns out the prison clothes and linen. This work is done by the long-termers during work hours, although most of them eat and live together with the short-termers. At noon we were marched back across the courtyard between the prison proper and the shop building for luncheon. White bread to the number of two slices, two slim 'wenies,' sloppy cabbage and the unbelievably bad coffee made up this repast. The 'wenies' were a luxury. Usually mealy looking baked beans formed the main course of lunch. Meat was allowed once about every two days, I learned. The shops claimed our attention throughout the afternoon, although the total amount of work done was negligible. Any petty criminal who works earnestly in the shop is promptly reprimanded by her sisters. It sets a bad example and makes the prison authorities expect more of the other prisoners. Late in the afternoon we were herded from the shop back to the cell block and the so-called recreation hour. And once again I was subjected to a severe grilling by my cell mates. Except that it had lost some of its terror, the second night was a repetition of the first. Sleep was impossible. Through the night I heard the multitudinous sounds of many women confined in a tiny space, quarreling back and forth or forming discordant screening quarters in an effort to ward off as long as possible the spectre of the long dreary night. I was told on good authority that the old-timers long ago had learned to pick the locks of their individual cells and many of them surreptitiously visited friends in other cells for purposes better guessed at than said. Two tiny windows on the wall opposite the cell-block furnished the ventilation for this entire structure. Imagine one hundred and forty women living in a space ventilated by these two windows and overheated by badly placed steam pipes and you will be able to conjure up a picture that resembles the steam room of a Turkish bath, peopled with all the stenches of human existence made nauseating by the persistent odor of disinfectant. During a lull in the noises, I heard one woman, a cell or two away, instructing a neighbor in the art of crocheting. They could not see each other, but one had evidently secured crochet needles and material, and the other was explaining how many stitches it would take her per day to finish the collar for her baby back home, by Christmas! By dawn I was more than satiated with my jail experience. It seemed to me that another twenty-four hours of this would be impossible. Confident of my ability to reach my friend, the prison official, I survived the night. After breakfast I sought a means of reaching this influential gentleman. I learned that he had quarreled with his superiors the previous day, and forgetting about me, resigned! Furthermore, I would have been unable to reach him even if he had remained in his position! To serve the full ten days without sleep or food was beyond my powers of endurance. I began to plan frantically to achieve my release. I bethought myself of my mother, Mrs. O'Neill, who was living with my uncle. I took council with the nurse who had been so sympathetic during my supposed illness without, however, telling her that my crime had been faked. She advised me to go to the matron and explain that I knew of a woman who might pay my fine. Perhaps the matron would notify her. I took an additional twenty-four hours to bring this about. The matron was skeptical, but I insisted that this 'kind lady' had frequently befriended me in the past and might be prevailed upon to do so again! Needless to say, my mother had been disturbed by my continued absence. She knew that I was in jail, but she had expected me to return at the end of the first day. By the third day she was nearly frantic. When the matron phoned to say that there was a girl in the House of Correction who said she knew Mrs. O'Neill and wanted her to pay the fine, my mother never even waited to find out the name of the criminal. She assured the matron that she would take care of the matter and hastened to the judge. We have often wondered what the matron thought of the pair of us. My release came at the close of the third day--almost seventy-two hours after my entrance. In that time I lost twelve pounds and I was sick with hunger and loss of sleep. As I left, a group of fellow prisoners gathered at the door to wish me good luck. I shall never forget the picture they made. I call them my 'gray ghosts.' Unkempt and drab, they waved me good-bye with a sincere wish that I might 'stay out' and prosper. No one who has not had a similar experience can appreciate the outlook of the criminal serving sentence. To them the world is reversed. Out of prison we eulogize people in direct ratio to their lack of criminal ability; the criminal idealizes the master crook. The bigger the crime, the higher the social position of the criminal! That is the code of the underworld and nowhere is the effect of this code more strikingly emphasized than in prison. One loses his perspective on crime. Even with my slender experience, I found myself adopting their viewpoint. If the atmosphere can do that to me in three days, think what it can do in months or years to the confirmed criminal. Of one thing I cam convinced: Most of the women serving in the Detroit House of Correction were cases of psychopathic care or, at least, expert medical attention. Many of them, I am convinced, could be returned to normal life by proper care and psychological treatment--not physical punishment. But they can never return under the existing conditions. The effect of such an experience on a woman, born and bred to a very different place in life, is certain to be revolutionary. The girl in 'Manslaughter' leads a life of ease and self-gratification up to the time that she goes to prison. Most of the penitentiaries, and especially the women's prisons in New York State, are vastly better than the jail in which I suffered. But this girl must go through that horrible first night in some intermediate City or County Jail. That is one moment that is certain to exert a powerful influence upon her. And by comparison with this experience, the actual penitentiary will seem a paradise. I went in search of an experience and I found it. I wouldn't go through the same experience again for any amount of money. But I wouldn't sell it for an even greater sum.
1922-08-20	London, August 4--Mabel Normand, when she arrived in London, made it clear to her interviewers that she was not engaged to be married and that she had no present thought of getting married. On the top of this pronouncement came the report that she had betrothed herself to Prince Ibrahim. This she now denies with equal emphasis. She is not engaged to any one, she says. There is some hustle about Mabel Normand. The other day she was in a hurry to get to Paris. She reached the London office of the Lep Aerial to book an aeroplane seat for the Gay City, only to find that the last passenger auto to the aerodrome for the last aeroplane to France that day had gone. But a special car was rushed to the air station and she arrived just in time to leap aboard the flying machine.
1922-09-08	Europe having received the thrill of its life in the appearance of Mabel Normand at Deauville and other famous places, the young lady is now on her way home. She sailed yesterday on the Majestic, and if she cares to write her experience she will have plenty to tell. Mabel always gets the most out of every adventure.
1922-09-13	[interview with Mabel Normand on her arrival from Europe] ...Mabel Normand said she had been away six weeks, most of the time in Paris, resting. She was now ready to go West after a stay of a week in New York to begin making a picture with an English scenario, its name yet undecided, but something on the order of 'Molly O.' During the voyage she appeared each day in the big swimming pool on the Majestic, which she praised highly. Did she have a gallery? She did. She was surprised, she said, to learn that Roscoe Arbuckle had not progressed in the settlement of his affairs before the public and she was pained to learn of his illness in China.
1922-09-17	A legal battle of much warmth is promised tomorrow when Mabel Normand, the vivacious film star, answers to the suit of Perry M. Charles, her former press agent, for a matter of $2,940 back salary and several hundred dollars expenses, which he alleges is due him. On Friday a deputy sheriff attached several trunks of new gowns, which the actress brought back with her from her recent trip to Paris, and also commandeered all of Miss Normand's jewelry, now reposing in the safe of the Hotel Ambassador, where the star is living during her stay in New York. In the meanwhile nobody seems to know just what Miss Normand is doing to oppose the suit. She refused consistently to be interviewed yesterday on any point of the action, saying she knew nothing of it. Miss Normand's gowns may have been attached, but there was no evidence of it yesterday, when she flitted through the lobby of the Ambassador. The star was clothed in white from head to toe. Of what material the gown was composed the reporter who was sent to interview her could not determine. He caught only a fleeting glimpse. He probably wouldn't have known anyway. The actress was very loath to talk. The reporter, talking from the lobby to Miss Normand in her suite, was told she didn't know anything about the affair. After a short conversation, however, she decided to come down to the lobby to talk the matter over. After a time, Miss Normand did come down, but escorted by a young man. She started out as the reporter arose to speak. Seeing him, she turned nervously, giggled and ran out to her automobile on the arm of her companion. Miss Normand's predicament is due to the suit brought by Charles, after he found 'honeyed words' didn't pay him for his work. According to his charges, she has failed to pay him for his work with anything more tangible than a series of telegrams filled with pleasant words. He decided good cheer was a poor substitute for dollars, and now seeks $2,940 in back salary and several hundred dollars for expenses. Charles admits receiving some money for his offices in Miss Normand's behalf, but declares it was very little, and nothing to what he was entitled to. 'Men must live,' is the opinion of Charles, and when a press agent gives up a perfectly good job as publicity man for a musical comedy to undertake the same sort of work for a film star, he expects to be paid. Charles submitted to the court several telegrams he said were sent him by the actress. He said he was in Toronto last April when Miss Normand, who was in Los Angeles, wired him: 'Perry Dear--Wire me collect your plan. Received wire this A. M. Wonderful if you are in England when I arrive to meet me. Without you I will be lost. Love and thanks to the Tates. Is Harry (Tate) paying your passage? Wire details. If you need money, wire me. When do you sail? Might be able to go along. Want you to work for me. Anything you say goes about salary. Might be better your going ahead to fix things up, then return to America with me. London, Paris, Berlin, etc. When arrive New York will telephone you. Love, Mabel.' Charles submitted another telegram he says he got on May 9 as follows: 'Perry Dear--Can I phone you anywhere and at what time Wednesday? Send me straight wire. Also insist upon paying for phone. You are beloved by me. Telephone me Wilshire 7226. Love, Perry, always.' Charles alleges that he considered himself employed and sailed from Montreal for Southampton. He did some preliminary work for her there, he says, and when she arrived later introduced her to theatrical, dramatic and sporting editors, reporters and others.
1922-10-01	After having survived six weeks of strenous location activities for 'The Cowboy and the Lady,' Mary Miles Minter was knocked about her private car when a switch engine jolted it near Victor, Idaho, sustaining severe cuts and numerous scratches and bruises. Tom Moore, Mary's leading man, received severe bruises about the head. The actors were waiting to start their railroad journey back to Los Angeles when the accident occurred. The unfeeling director was doubtless relieved that the actors had completed their roles in the picture before the smash happened.
1922-10-04	Spirit Has Real Dope on Killing The murderer of William Desmond Taylor, motion-picture director slain here last February, had better leave the country or confess, for the spirit world is all riled up, and certain spirits intend to give the police the real dope if the guilty party does not make a clean breast of things. Yesterday afternoon an unknown medium telephoned to the office of Private Detective Nick Harris, declared that Taylor's murderer was a woman, the mother of a girl whom Taylor had wronged, and that the spirits were determined to have the mystery cleared up. Harris himself vouches for the authenticity of the telephone call, as do three police detectives, who were in his office at the time. The voice over the telephone said, in part: 'I decided last night to submit to spirit land and received this message: 'That William Desmond Taylor was not murdered by a man but that he was shot by a woman disguised as a man and who is prominently known in Los Angeles. She has a daughter. The daughter, she believed, had been wronged by Taylor. [12] 'The message further stated the spirits would not divulge the identity of the mother for a certain period of time, but would give the guilty one an opportunity to go before the authorities and make her confession and her plea for self-preservation of her child's honor, and that no jury would convict her of this crime after hearing her story. 'The voice of the spirit stated that if this warning is disregarded, then the mother would be placed at the mercy of man-made laws, that her name would be given to the world through this medium.'
1922-10-08	A small dark man stepped from the elevator at the Hotel Ambassador looking as solemn as an owl, which is the old-fashioned way of saying as solemn as Buster Keaton, for it was none other than the man without a smile. He followed us into the reception room and sat down with the deliberation of a patient setting himself in a dentist's chair. Then he surprised us with a smile that would rank highly with any we have ever seen. 'You really can smile,' we exclaimed, and realized at once that the remark was in the class with the one made upon meeting twins and saying, 'How often you must be mistaken for each other.' Buster did not reply, he suppressed a yawn and taking our cure, we asked him about New York night life. 'Terrible,' he answered. 'I haven't missed a night at the theatre. Then there are the races and now the World Series, no wonder I'm under weight. 'We are seeing as many plays as we can with a view toward getting a new picture for Constance. The one I would like to see her do is 'Kiki,' but it may be hard to get.' Mrs. Buster, Natalie, the youngest of the three Talmadges, it seems has no desire to go back into pictures. She is busy taking care of her four- months old son. Expressing a wish to see the baby, we were told that he was airing on Park Avenue and that we could find him when we went out. 'You can't miss him, he looks just like me,' said the proud father. 'He has a black buggy and a white nurse.' The conversation turned to Buster Keaton's own childhood when, as the little boy of the vaudeville act known as the 'Three Keatons,' he kept the Gerry Society anxious because they couldn't find a bruise on him, although he was tossed expertly about the stage in a way that made the audience hurt. 'I got so used to it that I took my clothes off every time I saw an officer. We had the roughest act on the boards and used to play at old Hammerstein's so often that we kept a set of props there. 'By the way, how is Sam McKee, of the Telegraph? He used to be a great friend of ours.' We told him of the funny little picture of him given us by Mr. McKee, showing him in the make-up of an old Irishman, the duplicate of that worn by his dad, and he laughed at the memory of his own quaint little figure. It was while playing vaudeville alone that he got his first opportunity to go into pictures. That was only five years ago and in that time they have become so popular that the time has come for Buster to be seen in a feature comedy, which he intends to start work on when he returns to California. Speaking of the material for his two-reel pictures, Keaton said that his scenarios were usually on postal cards. 'Ideas just come to us as we go along, for instance, in 'The Boat' I got the idea from an actual occurrence. The manager of a theatre on the old canal at Utica built himself a swell cruiser in the cellar of the theatre and had to knock out a side of the theatre to get it into the water. 'In comedy, like any other kind of picture, you have to do stuff that will be appreciated outside of New York and Chicago. In big cities the people are sophisticated enough to understand travesty and the more subtle bits of humor, but they don't get over elsewhere. Comedy is best when it rouses the curiosity of the audience. As an example of the kind of thing I mean, take this situation. A man sees a pretty girl get into one of those 'Old Mill' boats in Coney Island. He gets in the same boat and it passes out of the picture, the action progresses with no sign of the boat for many feet of film, when it reappears the man has a black eye and other damages. It is simple, but there is nothing that requires more knowledge and has a greater number of rules or technical stunts than comedy slapstick or the other kind.' Born and reared in his work, Buster Keaton gives you the impression of knowing it thoroughly from the ground up. He is becoming more in demand as a comedian every year, and if there is one thing the screen needs it is this kind of entertainment well done by people who understand it. In parting, we asked him if he had any statement to make to the great American public. To our surprise, he rose and said: 'I certainly have,' with all the conviction in the world. This was more than we had expected. 'Yes, yes, what is it?' we asked, all a-twitter. 'I hope the Yanks win,' said Buster.
1922-10-15	Hollywood, Oct. 9--For the second time the capitol of filmland has hit the gong for the benefit of the Actors' Fund of America, that splendid, professional cause which Daniel Frohman so ably and tirelessly heads. Last year the motion picture branch of the fund was established by the proceeds from an all-day carnival and gorgeous pageant given by the film folk at the Los Angeles Speedway. This year it was augmented by a large share of the gross receipts from a spectacularly beautiful performance of Shakespeare's 'A Midsummer Night's Dream.' This was staged Saturday night in the Hollywood Bowl, under the auspices of the Motion Picture Directors' Association. And when standing at the side, gazing over the sea of more than 10,000 faces that lined the graceful hills of the Bowl and glancing over the hundreds of celebrated names on the program, one reflected that nowhere else in the world, perhaps, could there be assembled such a wealth of beauty, luxury and talent. About 90 per cent of the 'Who's Who in Filmdom' were on the program, playing important roles, 'suping' with spears, strolling past in the pageant, or out in the audience and driveways selling programs and acting as ushers. The other 10 per cent, were in the boxes for which they paid as high as $200, or in the $10 or $15 seats, giving the rest of the gigantic audience a double treat in their propinquity. In the picturesque theatre, which had the stars for its canopy and the full moon for its chandelier, with a lovely green-covered and tree-studded hill for the backdrop of its broad stage, on which dozens of colored spotlights were turned throughout the performance, the principal roles of Shakespeare's fantastic comedy were played by Enid Bennett, who was a queenly Titania; Conrad Nagel, a romantic Oberon; Viola Dana, who frolicked delightfully as Puck; Mary Miles Minter as the lovely Helena; Thomas Holding as Demetrius; Shirley Mason as a fiery and winsom little Herminia; William Desmond as a dominating Lysander; Stuart Holmes as Theseus; Louise Dresser as Hippolyta; Patsy Ruth Miller as a fairy; with Francis Powers, Charles Newton, Wallace Reid, William Russell, Gertrude Astor, Cullen Landis, Gaston Glass and Dick Sutherland in incidental bits. The individual 'hits' of the evening were scored by the five comedians, Charles Ray, who seemed to be having a good time and entertaining others, too, as Flute, the bellows mender; Larry Semon, who cavorted as Snug, the joiner and played the lion in their burlesque; Wilson Hummell as Quince; Mitchell Lewis as Snout; Otis Harlan as a mirth-provoking Starveling, and, especially, by Lionel Belmore , whose performance as Bottom brought him repeated applause. Then there were the fairies led by Jackie Coogan, Baby Peggy, Gertrude Messinger, Bob Alexander and Johnny Jones, with dozens of tiny screen kiddies braving the chilly night in their filmy garments to add the exquisitely lighted scenes in the forest. And every one of them were 'ever in the picture,' even the tiniest, who grew tired of pirouetting and dashed off to the wings with a cry of 'Oh, daddy,' at a very fantastic moment in the play. And the pageant. It was interpolated in the first act to give the vast audience a chance to see more of their favorites than Shakespeare's cast permitted. The pity of it all, however, was that the plan to announce the stars as they passed in review by electric signs apparently failed to carry and there were few, even among the professionals in the audience, who could recognize the pageant beauties in their classic costumes. In the pageant were Frank Beal, William Farnum, Claire Windsor, Edna Purviance, Jane Novak, Lottie Pickford, Kathlyn Williams, Marie Prevost, Ruth Roland, Mae Busch, Helene Chadwick, Anna Q. Nilsson, Carmel Myers, Florence Vidor, Wanda Hawley, Mae Murray, Lois Wilson, Bebe Daniels, Agnes Ayres, Dorothy Phillips, Priscilla Dean and last, but by no means least, Pola Negri. However, when Miss Negri doffed her headdress and covered her Cleopatra costume with a gorgeous ermine cape, she appeared in Daniel Frohman's box, where Charlie Chaplin, Mary O'Connor, Jesse L. Lasky, Marion Fairfax and Josephine Quirk were among his other guests and, needless to say, the audience passed and repassed that particular point to glimpse the famous Polish star and the comedian. Mr. Chaplin's contribution to the performance was one of its biggest hits. With his hair ruffled and the baton in his left hand, he conducted the orchestra in Mendelssohn's 'Spring Song' after the second act... [This was probably Minter's last stage performance.]
1922-10-21	Wallace Reid is seriously ill. Waging a valiant battle against a combination of maladies the debonair, dashing hero of screenland was reported last night as 'doing as well as could be expected.' From his bedside in a sanitarium Dorothy Davenport, actress, in private life Mrs. Wallace Reid, said in effect: 'Wallace is a very sick man. It is true that his condition is serious but he is not dying, as was the rumor this afternoon.' Attending physicians and Miss Davenport announced that the dangerous illness is a combination of a nervous breakdown and an eye disorder known in cinema circles as 'kleig eye.' 'Kleig eye,' it was explained, is similar to 'snow blindness' and is brought on by long and continued exposure of the eyes to powerful batteries of calcium lights used in moving pictures. The stricken screen star, Miss Davenport said, has been in ill health for several months because of overwork and the eye malady. The combination proved too much for his physique Wednesday and he suffered a 'complete breakdown.' Reid has appeared in more pictures than any male star in the studios here, his friends assert, and his eyes, never strong, failed completely about two weeks ago. For several days he was blind, they say, but during the last week his eyes grew stronger, but his nervousness was accentuated. The climax came when he started to work on the Lasky 'lot' a week ago on a picture known as 'Nobody's Money.' He was cast for the lead, but was unable to continue after the first day or so. Scenes in which he was not scheduled to appear were 'shot' while the supporting company waited for his recovery. But yesterday it was announced that Jack Holt had been signed to play the lead in 'Nobody's Money.' Reid requested and obtained a four weeks' vacation from the Lasky Corporation which ended Wednesday. During that period he camped and hunted in the mountains in an attempt to stem the onrushing nervous breakdown.
1922-10-29	While still under the spell of 'The Fool,' I met James Kirkwood. I saw not the movie hero of a hundred film thrillers, but the earnest young assistant rector who tried to live according to the teachings of Christ and almost landed himself in the insane asylum. I had heard much about 'The Fool' before it ever reached Broadway. But Helen Pollock's enthusiasm over her father's finest play seemed mild after seeing with my own eyes the result of Channing Pollock's thoughtful work. 'The Fool' is the sort of play that is written once in a generation. It lifts you right out of your every-day humdrum existence and inspires you to try and bring a little more love and charity into your dealings with your fellow men. James Kirkwood in his characterization of Gilchrist presents this message of life and truth, which is better than any sermon I ever heard. It seemed when first I met Mr. Kirkwood in his dressing room at the theatre that he belonged in a totally different atmosphere. That is what the play did to me. It did the same for him, for he admits that he comes more and more under the spell of Gilchrist at each performance. Mr. Kirkwood has been identified with motion pictures for so long that his success in 'The Fool' is in a way a motion picture triumph. He as well as his friends were dubious as to his reception in a serious play. The attitude of people being 'once a movie hero--always a movie hero.' But strangely enough this wasn't held against Mr. Kirkwood. In fact his motion picture career wasn't as much as mentioned. Suffering with a heavy cold, Mr. Kirkwood was doing his best to nurse his voice so he wouldn't fail Channing Pollock. 'Yesterday, before the opening,' said Mr. Kirkwood, 'I wouldn't have cared if I had lost my voice. I was so frightened I thought an automobile that almost bore me down would have done a great favor to Mr. Pollock if it had struck me. I was hungry, but I couldn't eat. I ordered dinner, but I didn't touch a mouthful. I was in a sort of a daze, a stupor, all day. Mr. Pollock had been so fine I didn't want to disappoint him and coming back to the stage after an absence of ten years takes Herculean courage, but today I feel better. I shouldn't want an automobile to run me down.' Mr. Kirkwood's return to the stage is the result of serious thought. First as a director of Mary Pickford and other famous stars he earned an enormous salary and then later as leading man in many of the big pictures of the year he increased that weekly envelope until at the time he accepted a part in 'The Fool' he was making enough to be classed with the rich people in the industry. 'I had several offers from stage producers,' said Mr. Kirkwood, 'but nothing that appealed to me. It seemed the essence of foolishness to give up my remunerative motion picture work for a stage part that did not promise either reward in money or fame. One producer wanted to sign me up with the promise that he would find something for me. His idea was to send me out to all the small towns and bank on my popularity on the screen, not caring what sort of a play I had. Naturally such an offer did not appeal to me and I had practically given up all thought of the stage until Mr. Pollock asked me to read 'The Fool.' After reading it there wasn't money enough in all the world to tempt me to give up the chance to play Gilchrist. The stage, of course, doesn't pay what the screen does, but do you know honestly money never enters my head. I'm in love with my part and I believe I would have played in 'The Fool' if I hadn't received one penny. It's the finest role I ever had.' Gilchrist is to James Kirkwood, from his own conversation, what Hawthorne's 'Great Stone Face' was to the boy who unconsciously grew like it, as he gazed at its image day after day. 'I am not religious,' he said, 'at least not according to the popular idea of it. But it's a funny thing, this play gives something to every one. It inspires even those who never give a thought to the desire to be better or to improve themselves. It makes one think what a small thing money is and how great is character, and the opportunity to help other people--and how simple it all is if we only make the effort. 'I talk about what it does to me,' he went on. 'I really do not count. It is the effect it has on the people who see it. A priest came to Mr. Pollock on the opening night and said: 'That play is too good for the theatre. It should be played in the church.' Mr. Pollock thanked him and said it was much better to have it played in the theatre because then it reached more people who probably needed it. Another priest wired Mr. Pollock and said: 'God bless you for having written such a play.'' A curious thing about James Kirkwood. He simply refused to talk about himself. His whole conversation was Channing Pollock and 'The Fool.' 'Do you know,' he asked me, 'that it took Mr. Pollock ten years to write this play? He never expected it would be a success. He wrote it because he had it in his heart. One of the critics said he wrote what he feared might be over the heads of the people, and instead wrote right into their hearts.' While we were talking one of the members of the cast came and whispered something in Mr. Kirkwood's ear: 'Tell her to wait,' he said. But I noticed he said the word wait very reluctantly. Could you blame him--when it was Lila Lee? Miss Lee and Seena Owen occupied front seats at the opening performance. The motion picture people with whom 'our Jim' is very popular feel a personal interest in this marvelous triumph scored by him and by 'The Fool.' They cannot help but feel a certain pride in having one of their clan associated with a play that brings so much mentally, morally and spiritually to those who see it. And because the whole company was waiting for rehearsal and Miss Lee was beginning to show signs of impatience our interview ended. After seeing Mr. Gilchrist on the stage I was a little afraid to meet him face to face. But he measures up to the character. His greatest charm is his simplicity and sincerity and he will spread the gospel of better living quite as effectively and perhaps more interestingly and more dramatically than any delivered from the pulpit.
1922-11-05	John Robertson progressed so far with the formation of his own company that he even had the necessary capital to finance his project. He resigned from Famous Players-Lasky and refused five definite offers from five companies to produce pictures, all because back in his mind was the overwhelming desire to be his own boss. Every man has that desire. It's one of the foundations upon which human nature is built. Then without any warning John Robertson dropped all talk of forming his own company and signed a contract with Inspiration. Speedy work on the part of Charles Duell, said one man who will never get over losing Robertson. But most people who know John Robertson felt there must be something back of this sudden change other than Charles Duell's persuasive tongue. At the Algonquin--which is to the actors and directors what 729 Seventh is to the exchange men and theatre owners--Mr. Robertson explained why he turned down the five prominent producers and signed on the dotted line with Inspiration, which is the newest producing company of them all. 'The responsibility of being in absolute control is enormous,' said Mr. Robertson. 'When Mr. Duell, as president of Inspiration, came to me with an offer I said no at first. I did not dread the responsibility exactly, but I know so little about business. I can make pictures, I can direct stars, but I cannot sell my product. I was originally an actor, and few actors have any business ability. Then Mr. Duell and I talked again. He offered me everything I had planned to have myself, with a freedom of all the business end, and I accepted.' Mr. Robertson, in explaining why he changed his mind, said the idea of being held responsible for other people's money was a thing that was too important to be entered into without looking at it from every angle. When John Robertson said that he had been an actor I thought I had misunderstood him. But after repeating the question he assured me long before he had ever had any hopes of making a picture like 'Sentimental Tommy' he had been an actor. He went out to the Vitagraph and worked as Anita Stewart's leading man, under the direction of Ralph Ince. After studying the technique of direction, Albert Smith permitted him to try his skill, and he did so well he lost his job as an actor and became a director. From Vitagraph he went to Famous Players-Lasky, where for five years he turned out some of their finest productions. I mentioned 'Sentimental Tommy,' although possibly of all the pictures he made for Famous this one brought the least financial return. One of the most artistic pictures ever made, and one of the few that really reflects the spirit of Barrie--this film has never been considered a big box office attraction. Mr. Robertson said at first there was a suspicion that casting people who were not stars for the leading roles might have something to do with the difficulty in bringing people into the theatre to see it, but when the same fate happened to 'Peter Ibbetson,' which boasted of Elsie Ferguson, Wallace Reid, Montagu Love and an entire cast of stars, the fault seemed to be more with the type of picture. I was glad to hear Robertson say, even if 'Sentimental Tommy' had not approached the other films in monetary returns, he had never regretted making it. He said he felt repaid in London when Sir James Barrie complimented him and told him how much he liked the picturization of his story. 'Footlights' is another pet of Mr. Robertson's. This reversed the order of things, however, and brought into the Paramount treasury enough money to make up for the shortage of 'Sentimental Tommy.' Based on Rita Weiman's story, 'Footlights' is Elsie Ferguson's best and most popular picture. John Robertson has great imagination; that is one reason the majority of his pictures have been so successful. He sees things with a picture eye and measures the possibilities of the camera before he starts work. His actors all adore him, and enjoy working with him because of his appreciation of the value of big scenes, and his knowledge of dramatic effects--a thing so many directors lack. Having just finished 'Tess,' Mr. Robertson was full of Mary Pickford's extraordinary ability. 'She is the most wonderful girl I ever met,' he said. 'She knows everything about picture making, from the most technical side to the dramatic possibilities. I thought with her fame and success she would probably resent taking direction. But she sought it. She was as nervous as a debutante for fear she would not get the most out of every scene.' Mr. Robertson said frequently they had appealed to Douglas Fairbanks for an opinion. When asked for advice he would give it, but he would never venture a suggestion until asked for it. 'Their married life,' said Mr. Robertson, 'is ideal. They work together, play together, and plan their pictures together. Just the way people should do. I feel strongly on that subject, because my wife has been such a help and inspiration to me.' Mrs. Robertson, as Josephine Lovett, has written most of Mr. Robertson's scenarios, and has helped him to visualizing them for the screen. 'I was tempted to accept Miss Pickford's offer to remain with her, and if Mr. Duell had not persuaded me to come into the Inspiration fold I think I would have made her next picture. 'Inspiration offers me a big chance,' said Mr. Robertson. 'I shall have Miss Lillian Gish, who, like Miss Pickford, is an actress of brains and experience. I feel having all three of the Inspiration players--Richard Barthelmess, Dorothy Gish and Lillian--I shall have an opportunity to put all my ideas into operation.' Mr. Robertson said his first picture would be a Richard Barthelmess feature. The play has not yet been chose, although Joseph Hergeshimer's 'Bright Shawl' has been discussed as a possible vehicle. Over at the Algonquin one must always talk fast--there are so many people to interrupt--and we did talk fast, for we had many things to say, but an hour came and went quickly and we both had other engagements.
1922-11-12	[letter to the editor]...Mabel Normand used to be a great favorite of mine. Then for an extended period she appeared in the most hopelessly colorless films. I kept going to see her, each time hoping and believing that if I were persevering enough I'd be sure to strike something good, eventually. It took a long time and a lot of persistence, but finally I saw 'Molly O,' which was the best part Mabel Normand had had for a year or more. Just when things began to look bright again, and I thought: well at last she has decided to give us something worthwhile, away she went to Europe and ain't been seen since!...
1922-11-26	What is the matter with the movies will be answered when some theatre owner invents a remedy for the present handicap in the theatre of permitting the public to see the last half of a picture before the first has been unreeled, David Wark Griffith says. He believes conditions in the film world will continue as black as some of our most erudite writers have pictured them in the recent scathing magazine articles, until this crying evil is overcome. 'How long could David Belasco hold his supremacy as the stage's most artistic producer,' asked Mr. Griffith, 'if his audiences straggled into his theatres all during the performance, some of them seeing the big dramatic climax before they had seen the events leading up to it. Brilliant as he is, he would be a lamentable failure if the public were permitted to see the surprises in his plays first; if the denouement was presented before the first act was seen, he could not possibly survive. The greatest dramatic producer in the world of any age could not have any appeal to his public if he had to plan his plays with the idea in the back of his mind that he must work out his plot step by step with the thought it could be seen backward as well as in its logical sequence of acts and scenes. 'Take my picture, 'One Exciting Night.' It is full of unexpected moments. The audience is not supposed to know who murdered Johnson. The name of the arch villain who is constantly killing some one is not known. If the patrons of a theatre walk into the house and see the whole plot exposed with the murderer brought to justice and the reason for all this wild excitement, what is there left for him when the first scenes go on again? The picture is ruined. You could not expect any one to find an evening's entertainment in a mystery play with the mystery explained in advance.' Mr. Griffith feels so keenly on the evil of continuous performances he believes it is as grave a problem as censorship. 'I talked with Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks on the harm that has been wrought by this backward presentation,' said Mr. Griffith. Mary talked for half and hour and agreed with me something should be done. 'If any theatre owner,' said Mr. Griffith, 'blazed the trail and announced he would show his features only at certain hours, he would probably lose money. His fellow exhibitors would laugh at him for his visionary plan, but he would be doing a big thing for the artistic future of motion pictures. A plan might be devised on Broadway,' went on Mr. Griffith, 'whereby no one would be seated after the feature had been on half an hour. If any one arrived that late he would have to wait until the end of the photo-play. There are comfortable divans and commodious lobbies to take care of the late arriving patrons, but I am not sure this plan would be practical in the smaller towns, where the theatre owner has no way of taking care of his patrons outside of the theatre.' Mr. Griffith feels it is highly essential for some way to be devised for a picture to be seen as the producer intended it when he made it, that he is willing to award a prize to any one who can work out a practical solution of the difficulty and offer some substitute for the haphazard plan that so upset the soul of those who are striving to give the world better pictures. 'One Exciting Night' is not the sole motive for prompting Mr. Griffith to make this plea, but every other production, he says, that has been made with a care and earnestness that gives its producer the right to expect a different presentation. 'We ask ourselves what is the matter with motion pictures. Why do some of our most brilliant minds ridicule the motion picture as cheap and ridiculous? Simply because many producers purposely make their pictures with an obvious theme. They figure if they try any subtlety it will be submerged when the films are run off with the last scenes first and the first scenes last. 'There must be some way to overcome this evil that is holding the motion picture down to a lower level and preventing it from attaining the place it was destined to reach,' said Mr. Griffith. 'Even the stumbling over pairs of feet in the dark is minor compared with the irreparable harm being done our finest productions by the vogue now existing in the theatres where the films are run off as quickly as the operator can operate the machine in order to seat as many people as possible.' Some one suggested to Mr. Griffith that a system might be evolved whereby the exhibitor would send out to his patrons postcards with the hour the feature would be shown, asking that the patrons try and get to the theatre at the time mentioned on the cards. 'Naturally the theatre owner wants to make as much money as he can,' said Mr. Griffith. 'No one blames him for that. The postcard might keep people away. He would not want to do anything that would work a hardship against his business. But I feel there is some brave soul somewhere who for the sake of what it means to motion pictures will try the experiment of not permitting his patrons to take their seats after the feature has been on for half an hour. He would be doing a great good and every producer would rise up and call him blessed.' Mr. Griffith says he will be happy to receive any suggestions either from men who are in the film business or from outsiders. He is confident there is some solution to this evil which threatens to be so disastrous to the finer productions and he asks that every one who is sincerely interested in giving not only New York, but Keokuk, Iowa, or Oshkosh, Wis., the best in motion pictures try and help find the solution. What is the matter with the movies, as Karl Kitchen and other writers have asked in articles in the various magazines is not a desire on the part of the producers to make cheap films with tawdry subjects, but an inability to get away from these subjects so long as the films are presented backwards. David Griffith always has something to say when he speaks, and we believe this is worthy of consideration. We should like to hear from some one else on the same subject.
1922-11-26	Victor Seastrom will never win a prize in a talking contest. His silences are far more eloquent than his conversation. But when he does talk he has something to say, and what he says is not prefixed with the pronoun I, and filled with a long account of personal experiences. He is unbelievably modest, so much so that when he named his salary it is said F. J. Godsol gave him more than he asked, giving as his reason the man who made 'At the Stroke of Midnight,' 'Jerusalem,' 'Eyvinde of the Hills,' 'Sir Arne's Treasure' and 'You and I' is worth every penny he paid him. Now you will admit this doesn't sound like a motion picture story. But Victor Seastrom is unlike a motion picture man--at least not any I have ever met. He is modest to the point of shyness, and approaches his new job with a fear that he may not be as good as Mr. Godsol and others who have seen his work know him to be. Coue would say Mr. Seastrom needs a little Coueism to give him confidence, and any one meeting him for the first time might agree with the Nancy pharmacist, but having seen some of the Seastrom pictures I will have to modify that and say he may need Coue for himself but not for his work. After much effort on my own part and some prompting by Howard Dietz, who went with me to the Plaza Hotel to call on the Swedish director, he modestly volunteered some of his ideas. 'In Sweden,' he said, 'we erect monuments to Ibsen, Strindberg, Bjornson and other famous writers. In America you give your homage to your Senators and the men prominent in political life. The student body in our country is very highly regarded; in your country it is not considered important.' Mr. Seastrom, with reservation and without any thought of offending America, went on to say in his country poverty is no barrier to education. The poorer classes know art and literature and music as well as the rich. Swedish audiences are ready for Ibsen and Strindberg, but the American audience must be prepared by any films in which no attempt is made to modify a story and give it the usual conventional happy ending. He said it in less the critical language perhaps, but the meaning is the same. Being a stranger in a strange country this exceedingly modest director is feeling his way along the ground and not doing any moving until he is sure of himself. Coming from a country where he has worked in a badly equipped studio with no facilities and where he has to do everything from washing the film to photographing it, he is amazed at the vastness of it all. Instead of saying: 'Well, here I am. Now American film history will begin.' He says: 'I am here and I want to do my best. I hope I can please the American public.' Mr. Seastrom, hearing how fast Americans move, expected to see men walk over each other on the street, and women trampled under foot in the mad rush to succeed; expected to be caught in the commercial maelstrom and swept away in the fast-moving current. Instead he found a calm people who had time to listen to him, and who had watched his work with interest and admiration. 'I was agreeably surprised,' he confessed with a smile. 'I am lonesome for my family, but I have to admit this town grows on one.' After Mr. Seastrom tries a little Hollywood air and begins his motion picture work, he will send for his family. His wife is Ethel Erastoff, a famous actress, who is now playing the lead in 'Loyalties' in Copenhagen. 'I went to see the American production of 'Loyalties,'' he said. 'How does it compare with your wife's work, we asked him. 'I do not know,' he replied, 'I have never seen my wife but once on the stage.' 'What?' both Mr. Dietz and I exclaimed in one breath, thinking that perhaps Fanny Hurst's doctrine had struck the Seastrom home. 'I take her to the theatre and call for her,' he said, 'but I never see her on the stage. It makes her so nervous when she knows I am in the audience she cannot act. 'If you come to see me,' she said, 'you will not love me.'' So, modesty, we believe, must run in the Seastrom family. This man, who was discovered by America in Sweden, and who with Pola Negri and Ernst Lubitsch has come to the United States to remove the gnawing fear in the American hearts that there is a threatened foreign invasion, has directed as well as played in his pictures. The term artist has been wrongfully applied so many times we hesitate to use it in the case of this man, who is in reality an artist, but it is the only word we can think of that properly expresses Victor Seastrom's ability. Victory Seastrom may bring us just what we need--a little more subtlety, less obvious explanation and the delicate touches that make his pictures more than mere films. 'Americans,' he said sadly, 'do not like beautiful mountains, rivers and trees. They must have action. In Sweden we can express so much with our scenery we love to see it.' About this time the conversation began to lag and Freckles, who is called the Wesley Barry of press agents, began to talk in grandiloquent tones about the Vikings, asking Mr. Seastrom if he came from a family of Vikings. But alas and alack our stalwart and handsome hero failed to rise to Freckles's bait and only shook his head and said: 'My family have followed the sea if that is what you mean.' It wasn't all Freckles meant. He who loves romance smelt a story in which a noble Viking of the Northland figured and because we hated to have him disappointed we broke up the party--suspecting Mr. Seastrom was delighted. He seemed so worried for fear between us Freckles and I would concoct a story that should not be printed. I hope we have not wronged him.
1922-12-09	Jesse L. Lasky and the Famous Players-Lasky Corporation have severed all connections with Mary Miles Minter, one of its most prominent screen stars, according to an announcement made public in New York today. 'Miss Minter is working on 'The Trail of the Lonesome Pine,' which will close her contract with us,' remarked Secretary Goodwin of the executive offices. 'It has been understood for some time that this picture would terminate her services.' Later it was stated to Jesse L. Lasky that Miss Minter expected to return to the stage and that she is completing negotiations with a theatrical corporation in New York City with that end in view. Mr. Lasky, first vice president of the Famous Players-Lasky Corporation announced: 'The contract with Mary Miles Minter and the Famous Player-Lasky Corporation, which has extended over a period of approximately three years, was for a certain number of pictures, the last of which is that upon which she is at present engaged, 'The Trail of the Lonesome Pine.' 'I understand that Miss Minter has made her plans for an appearance on Broadway, which will mark her return to the spoken drama, where she was so successful before entering on motion picture activities. 'It may be that her popularity is not sufficient to warrant the tremendous expense in finding pictures starring her. As the action was taken at New York I can not authoritatively discuss it.' Efforts to communicate with Miss Minter were futile, but it was announced at the office of her attorney that Miss Minter does not intend to retire from the screen, in spite of the action of the Famous Players-Lasky officials.
1922-12-16	Wallace Reid, international screen idol and hero of scores of film plays, has voluntarily given up the use of narcotics and is now playing out the most heroic role of his life in a Hollywood sanitarium where his determined attempt to win out over drugs and whisky have brought him to so low an ebb of physical resistance that his life is in danger. Two months ago Reid determined to break himself of the use of stimulants. Yesterday members of his family talked freely to The Times with the purpose of quieting the many false rumors which have grown and spread from coast to coast during the last two years--rumors which have run the gamut of sensationalism from tales of hopeless addiction to morphine and heroin to widely spread and unfounded reports that the Lasky star had reached a stage of partial blindness and equally untrue tales that his condition had become such that psychopathic treatment had been found necessary. The truth of the situation is that Mr. Reid is perilously weak and suffering from collapse and a high temperature: he is in a sanitarium in Hollywood under the care of two doctors and constantly under the surveillance of two male nurses, but his determination to stage a 'come- back' both personally and on the screen is unshaken, and his will power and cheerfulness are unimpaired. Wild liquor parties at the Reid home, called 'more like a road- house' by Mrs. Davenport, featured Mr. Reid's slow decline to where he was forced to rely upon stimulants to carry him through his acting on the Famous Players-Lasky lot in Hollywood. The parties, according to Mrs. Davenport, were made up in a large part of 'friends,' not even invited by her son-in-law. It is these persons who are chiefly to blame, she said. Almost three years ago members of the Reid household first noticed the change in the star's actions, they declared yesterday. The change dated from a severe injury sustained by Mr. Reid while he was filming a picture near San Francisco. A large rock falling from an overhanging bank struck Reid on the back of the head and knocked him out. Eleven stitches were taken by physicians in the actor's scalp. From the date of the accident to Reid's general break-down last September, his family yesterday traced his decline. Party after party in which liquor flowed like water marked the path. From whisky the trail branched to narcotics and ended just two months ago when Mr. Reid decided to fight it out and win his way back... From the bedside of her husband, Mrs. Dorothy Davenport Reid went to the home of a friend and there made a brief statement. 'My husband is a sick, sick boy,' Mrs. Reid declared. 'I don't know if he will recover, but he has broken his habit and won his fight. He made this fight of his own free will and has won it by the strength of his own mind and will. I know that he will come back... 'I have never been able to learn how much morphine was supplied a day by the peddlers to poor Wally, but he bought the drug here and also in the East. He had to have it. Then some time ago he fought his first battle with the habit and we all thought that he had won, but he was unable to shake clear and was unable to do so until about two months ago, when he left the studio, went into the hills and won his fight. 'One week after he returned to us he broke down. Now he is fighting for his life.'... From Mrs. Davenport, the wife's mother, the story of the plucky struggle was learned...Mrs. Davenport declared, 'For months before Wally went to the sanitarium he was unable to sleep at night. For hours he remained awake in bed and always Dorothy, heavy eyed, sat by him and soothed him like a mother. He seemed to depend upon her and she did not fail him. He would awaken her in the early morning hours and she would stroke his hair and croon him to sleep. 'Dorothy fought and lost, and then kept on fighting and won. The big struggle is over. Now we must nurse Wallace back to health.' The future for the film star, according to friends and others employed in the Famous Players-Lasky studio is uncertain. It is said that he is expected to be back at work the second week in January. Nothing has been officially given out concerning Mr. Reid except that he has been ill from 'overwork and a bad case of Klieg eyes.'...
1922-12-17	...[Will] Hays attempted during the course of the afternoon to get into communication with Jesse Laksy, who finally telephoned him at his Ambassador suite and declared that he would refuse to issue any statement regarding Mr. Reid. Mr. Lasky reminded Mr. Hays that last June he had detailed a physician and a nurse to attend Mr. Reid and watch him constantly, everywhere he went from the cellar to the bathroom. This was at the time of Mr. Reid's first breakdown...
1922-12-22	E. M. Asher, personal representative of Mack Sennett...confirmed that Miss Normand sailed on the White Star Line steamship Majestic last Saturday, December 16, to spend Christmas in England... Confirming Miss Normand's return to Europe, which she visited in the summer, Asher said she sailed rather suddenly, 'with a party of friends,' on the Majestic merely to spend Christmas in London. He said she had advised him she would sail on her return voyage two or three days after Christmas. He denied the disclosure of Wally Reid's breakdown had any connection with her sudden departure from the United States, but admitted she decided on the trip somewhat unexpectedly.
1922-12-24	...Some months ago there was formed an organization called the 'Federated Arts,' which was made up of directors, camera men, scenario writers, electricians, etc. The stated purpose was to boycott any picture stars who were not conducting themselves in a manner to bring credit to the industry. Everybody understood that it was directed at Wally Reid and two or three other stars. A delegation went to Lasky and asked him to remove Wally Reid from the films--at least, until he cured himself of the dope habit. According to the story told by the survivors, Mr. Lasky promised to investigate, but did nothing. The truth is that Reid presented himself at 'the front office' with heated denials, threats and demands for an investigation. He offered to allow physicians to examine him, etc. So the affair came to nothing. After that, an informal scheme was proposed by some of Wally's friends to forcibly kidnap him and take him to some hospital for treatment. This also fell through. The remnants of the Federated Arts have burned with the rebuff ever since...
1923-01-06	Resignation of Thomas Lee Woolwine as District Attorney within the next few days to become the executive head of a motion-picture organization to be known as the Independent Producing Manager's Association, loomed as a strong possibility last night with the announcement by Herman I. Roth, Hollywood attorney, and nationally known throughout theatrical circles, that overtures made to Mr. Woolwine during the last ten days practically had been accepted. 'I am not in a position to say whether I am going to resign to take the film job or not,' Mr. Woolwine stated last night. 'Things relative to the film position are shaping up rather well but before I will know anything definite I am going to have an other conference with the heads of the undertaking. 'There is a possibility that I may take it. We have been figuring on the proposition for days and have been going into it rather thoroughly. 'Whether I accept the position or not depends on the outcome of the next conference I am going to have which will be on Monday night. Then I shall know definitely. 'The way I understand matters at present I will be expected to handle the legal end of the company. I am going into the matter more thoroughly at the next conference to learn what will be expected of me.' Acceptance of this offer by Mr. Woolwine will mean, it is said, a salary of approximately $25,000 yearly for a period of five years. The association which was suggested voluntarily by a number of independent producers for the purpose of exploiting their own pictures, efficiency and economy to be the watchword, was fostered and brought to a head through the work of Mr. Roth. Twelve independent producers have already have pledged themselves to such an association and three more companies possibly will be allied with the original set in a few days. Ultimately every independent producer will be linked into the association, it is said. Mr. Woolwine if he accepts, will not become in any sense the Will Hays of the independent producers, but will look after the financial affairs of the proposed association in an advisory capacity, most of the legal work being left to Mr. Roth. The independents are not seeking to rival or oppose other organizations already formed in the motion picture field, but seek co-operation between independents for economy and efficiency, and to the end that their pictures get fair break with those of the larger organizations, which, through their power, have better distributing facilities.
1923-01-20	Hollywood--[from an article on the death of Wallace Reid]...'God-speed, Wally,' said Mary Miles Minter. 'You were our play-boy of the screen who brought us joy and laughter. You always made us feel that you were as much for us as we were for you.'...
1923-01-21	Jeanie Macpherson is in New York resting. Unlike most writers, she does not resort to the farm for relaxation, but takes a suite in a hotel in the very busiest part of Broadway, where the glare of the electric light signs flicker in through the windows and the roar of the many street noises hurl up their ceaseless symphony. 'Adam's Rib,' which Cecil B. De Mille finished screening a short time ago, is the latest picture story from the pen of this charming young writer. Her next effort is to be called 'The Ten Commandments.' This title was selected from thousands which were received in response to a prize offer of $1,000 in a contest for the best picture title. Letters with suggestions poured into the Lasky office from China, Japan, Germany, France, Africa and America. Three translators were kept hard at work. During the first week of the contest a letter came containing the suggestion 'The Ten Commandments' and before the thirty days of the contest were over seven more with the same idea were received, and so when it was finally decided that the title was to win the prize, $5,000, instead of $1,000, had to be distributed. It is interesting to note from what varied sources the same suggestion sprung. One was from a poor widow who was struggling to pay for a small house in which she and her four children live. The money came as manna from heaven to her. Another one of the winners was a major, who, when he sent in his suggestion, stated that if by any chance it should be accepted, he desired the money to go to the crippled children's hospital. A boy working his way through college was awarded one of the $1,000 prizes, which, of course, meant a great deal to him. A society woman donated her winnings to a charitable organization. Many people whose suggestions were rejected wrote in that they were glad of it, because they realized that 'The Ten Commandments' affords far greater possibilities than their own idea of a title. Miss Macpherson does not even let herself think about the method she will use in developing the story for the picture. She is letting her mind have a complete rest, so that when she returns to Hollywood the first part of February, she will be refreshed and ready to start work on it in real earnest. The story will not be a Biblical one, but will be modern in design, with the commandments applied to everyday life. Miss Macpherson says that there is nothing antique about the commandments--that they are practically embodied in our present laws--also that the subject will have to be handled in a delicate manner so as not to offend any religion. One of her friends asked her how she would develop the commandment, 'Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife,' without treading on an army of toes, to which she very resourcefully replied that in the original Hebraic form the words were simply 'Thou shalt not covet.' It seems that since their origin some one has been at work amending the commandments. Miss Macpherson grew indignant when the subject of the vices of Hollywood were approached. 'It is a deplorable truth,' she said, 'that human nature is so constituted that tales of virtue are never as interesting as stories of vice'--and so all we hear in the East about wicked Hollywood, which might readily lead us to believe that dope parties take place right in the middle of the main street, are only one side of the story, and that a negative side. 'There are 30,000 men and women out in Hollywood,' continued Miss Macpherson, 'who are working seriously for the pictures, and there are any number of happy families who live sane, decent lives.' If Miss Macpherson's serious little face is an echo of the true spirit of Hollywood, then we'll say it must be a pretty fine place. Aeroplaning is one of Miss Macpherson's chief delights. She pilots the machine herself and guarantees that a trip in the air will cure any woman of such petty fears as mice and spiders. Mr. De Mille, who will direct 'The Ten Commandments,' is off cruising on his yacht somewhere in the Pacific. He plans to go to the Tiberan Islands, off the south coast of California, which is said to be inhabited by a savage tribe of Indians. He is interested to see these people, who are alleged to be very primitive, and who rarely encourage visitors to their shores. He is also going to catch some ray fish. These, Miss Macpherson said, are thirty feet broad, and are caught by means of a harpoon. And thus do our great minds of the pictures seek rest and relaxation.
1923-01-27	(letter to the editor) Cut out the sloppy balderdash handed out by the press boys. Most movie fans are becoming very cynical concerning the powdered dimpled darlings who now 'star' in the movies. A few have brains, but the raft of spineless sweeties whose press agents write their 'Biorgraphies,' and who drive up to a 'rendouvoo' eating peanuts and reading the Police Gazette, who hold forth as the Queens of Hop at night and second-class 'America's Sweethearts' in the daytime--all of these and this the movie public is good and sick of.
1923-02-04	Maurice Tourneur was originally a French actor who played in Paris with Rejane and other French actresses, but is now ranked among the ablest directors in the country. That is why Goldwyn selected him to make its screen version of Sir Hall Caine's 'The Christian,' which will be the feature at the Capitol Theatre next week. That, also, is why what Mr. Tourneur has to say about motion pictures and the new tendencies in their development is worth hearing. Mr. Tourneur is keenly interested in mental action in films--in getting psychological effects instead of physical action. 'I heard a good deal of discussion to the effect that we were going to photograph 'The Christian' in its natural settings in England for the sake of 'realism', said Mr. Tourneur recently. 'That to my mind is not the important thing at all. I believe we have passed through the period of physical conflict and crowds, so far as the screen is concerned. What we are after now is the psychology of the drama--the mental action of the characters. 'Realism has been emphasized too much. I think that most of us would prefer to see Africa through the eyes of the artist, than through the prosaic lens of the camera. The impression is the thing. 'There is such a thing as overdoing beauty in settings. A pretty background is all right, but the background should never be allowed to interfere with the dramatic action. The action should overshadow all else. Pictures must get away from being merely tales portrayed against pretty backgrounds. 'The screen is a better medium than the dramatic stage for getting over psychological effects. We can drive ideas across. For instance, what better way is there to express corruption than to show a close-up of the check with which a man has bribed. It takes much longer to put over a mental state like that in words. 'The Goldwyn company agreed with me that you can get more to the spectators by showing a banging shutter, by indicating the howling of the wind, or the shrieking of a woman, than by numberless words. Motion pictures, first of all, should be impressionistic. 'No artist thinks of his public. If the public likes the results-- great! If the public doesn't like the results--too bad, but all right! Better luck next time. Perhaps you have found in your own experience that you can't reach any measure of real success if you are trying to please any one except yourself. It's the same old story that if you wish to meet a woman or a man favorably, you generally do the wrong thing and make a bad impression. ''Let 'em come to you,' is the best motto. Do your best and see what happens. That's what the artist has to do.' Mr. Tourneur's attitude on background comes as a surprise, particularly as he has enjoyed an enviable reputation for the beautiful 'composition' of his photodramas. And there is extra food for thought in his statements that 'we in pictures now are conveying subtle states of mind,' and that 'there is no sense in sacrificing reality for mere beauty of sets.'
1923-02-09	After spending the holidays in Europe Mabel Normand is on the high seas speeding toward New York. She sailed from England on the Baltic on February 3 and is due to reach here in a few days...
1923-02-14	Mabel Normand, film star, returned from Europe yesterday wearing a gold ring studded with diamonds on the 'engagement finger' of her left hand. She denied, however, she had married in England or perhaps became engaged there. She did admit she had met agreeable persons during her stay in the British Isles since early in December; but, that apparently was as far as the matter went. There were rumors on the ship. But liners are such gossipy places! Miss Normand herself looked agreeable as she came down the gangplank of the Baltic, which had met the Winter gales and had one of the roughest voyages this season. The photo-play actress was apparently in fine health. Despite published reports from abroad that she was living a quiet life there, with no display of fine dresses or jewels, she arrived yesterday arrayed in a black dress of the kind called 'chic,' a stunning leather-trimmed hat and her celebrated rope of pearls around her neck. As to what she has been doing while abroad she was silent. Several friends met her at the pier. She said she would go to Hollywood next Tuesday to appear in a film called 'Marianne,' under Mack Sennett's direction. She went to the Hotel Ambassador with a traveling companion who on the passenger list was 'Miss E. Luth,' but who, according to Miss Normand, was Mrs. Louise Lee. Miss Normand looked at her old home on Staten Island when the Baltic lay at Quarantine, and declared: 'It looks good covered with snow.'
1923-02-18	Wherever Alice Terry dined, wherever she lunched or spent the evening she was received with the open-eyed admiration of our Manhattan, who, like Paris, can forgive a woman anything but ugliness. But Manhattan, in addition to loathing plainness in women, strikes such a high average of feminine beauty a woman has to be a combination of Helen of Troy and Cleopatra to get more than the flicker of an eyelash. So when every man in the Knickerbocker grill gazed with admiring eyes on Alice Terry I realized, if I needed anything further to convince me, that the wife of Rex Ingram is a very beautiful woman. But it was not this beauty that gave her a chance to play the leading feminine role in 'The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.' It was Rex Ingram's confidence in her ability. He had known her for some years when he brought her the offer to play Margaret in Ibanez's story. 'I cannot do it,' she told him. 'Don't you like the part?' he asked. 'I love it, but I haven't had sufficient experience to play in a picture of the importance of 'The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse'.' And after Mr. Ingram had persuaded her to let him cast her, she worried for fear she might spoil the picture for him. The slim, blonde girl, who, with Rodolph Valentino, came in for world- wide praise, was made in that picture. Rex Ingram was right: the role was meant for her. Because Ibanez described Margaret as a blonde, Mr. Ingram, eager to follow the book as far as possible, insisted that Miss Terry cover her auburn locks and become a blonde. The effect was marvelous, so marvelous that she has never made a picture without the wig. People meeting her for the first time take one look at her auburn hair and look surprised. 'Miss Terry!' they repeat, and, if they are impulsive and given to talking too much, they will say: 'But your hair!' The complications, she says, of being a blonde on the screen and a brunette on the street are many, but now that her public is used to seeing her look like Margaret she has no intention of disappointing them. Just before Miss Terry went to the Coast she was called upon to make a momentous decision--whether to sign a contract with Metro and remain a Rex Ingram star or to go with another company where she would have to paddle her own canoe. 'Mr. Loew is such a good boss,' she said, 'and I love working with my husband, but sometimes I feel it would be better for us both. Rex feels he must not play me up too much in any of his pictures, because people will say that he pushed his wife forward, and I would like to see what I can do without help. 'Of course,' said Miss Terry earnestly, 'if Rex had any objection to my leaving Metro I wouldn't consider the other offer. But he is perfectly willing to have me do what I want in the matter. I haven't reached any decision yet, but the company that made me the offer is one of the largest ones in the business. Naturally Rex would not permit me to talk business with any other kind.' If Miss Terry does sign the other contract she will make 'Scaramouche' for Metro first. She says she loves the story and she is eager to play the woman's part. While she was in New York she had an offer to play 'Scaramouche' on the stage with Sidney Blackmar. 'Why didn't you accept the offer?' she was asked. 'I should have died of fright. I know I could never go on the stage,' she said. 'I was cast for a part in a tableau on the stage in California, and if I had had anything to say I would have passed away then and there.' The Ingrams returned to the Coast a week ago. Mrs. Ingram was not very eager to get back to sunny California. In New York she managed to get in the theatres, some parties and a good time. 'In California,' she said, 'we never go anywhere. Rex studies all the time. He no more than finishes one picture than he starts planning sets and reading books for his next. I do not care to go without him, so we stay home on an average of seven nights a week. I like to stay at home, of course, but I do enjoy going out once in a while.' So you see being the wife of a great director has its drawbacks. A sentiment that is honest and natural you will admit when it comes from a young woman not yet 23, who has been given more than her share of good looks and charm. But life for Alice Terry is not all dancing, attending the theatre and buying gowns. She is genuinely interested in her husband's work and watches with eager eyes every picture he creates. 'However, Rex and I do not always agree on his picture,' she said, laughing. 'His favorite is 'Trifling Women' and mine is 'The Conquering Power.'' We are usually neutral in all matters that concern a husband and wife, but in this case we agree with Miss Terry. We like 'Trifling Women' the least of anything Rex Ingram has ever made, and so we told her as we parted on the corner of Forty-Second Street and Broadway.
1923-02-23	After spending her time dodging inquisitive reporters who tried to fasten a husband on her Mabel Normand is returning to the Coast and work. She is leaving for Hollywood today. Her first picture will be 'Mary Ann,' to be made by Mack Sennett. Miss Normand yesterday went to the Capitol Theatre, where she had a preview of 'Suzanne,' her next picture. She looks very well these days and, having had a rest, is ready to return to work. She came home from Europe only a couple of weeks ago.
1923-03-11	Los Angeles, March 5--For eight months or more Mabel Normand has been missing from Hollywood and the film folk and 'fans' here often wondered if Mabel were ever coming home. She set their wonders at rest by returning Tuesday night, bubbling over with even more than her usual 'pep' following her long rest. And she lightened the hearts of confirmed native sons and daughters by saying that despite all the charms of the Continent she is still loyal to Hollywood. She says she will start work immediately in Mack Sennett's story, 'Mary Ann.'
1923-03-24	Did Movie Ku Klux Kill Wm. D. Taylor?' Inside, the article by T. Howard Kelly speculated that the Ku Klux Klan, or some similar secret organization, may have been responsible for the murders of William D. Taylor and actress Fritzie Mann. A subsequent article appeared in the May 5, 1923 issue of MOVIE WEEKLY: 'Movie Weekly Writer is Threatened by Ku Klux Klan.' Writer T. Howard Kelly revealed that after the publication of the first article he received two phone calls and an anonymous letter. The first phone call was a man's voice, stating: 'Are you going to keep your mouth shut about the K. K. K. in the movies? If not you go the way of William Desmond Taylor and Fritzie Mann.' The second call was from a woman who asked, 'Are you through suggesting that the Ku Klux Klan is at work in the movies?' Kelly replied, 'I am not.' The woman then stated, 'Then you can blame yourself for whatever happens to you,' and hung up. The anonymous letter was signed 'K.K.K.' and stated verbatim: 'There is many of that movie actors and actresses they will go to meet Mr. William Desmond Taylor and Fritzie Mann if they don't change the system of them live. But if you don't keep your mouth enclose and leave the Klan alone you'll be sorry. Now is up to you...' [sic]
1923-04-04	Residential suites de luxe is the name to be given to the palatial apartments which Mrs. Charlotte Shelby and Miss Margaret Shelby, mother and sister of Mary Miles Minter, have evolved out of the old Duque residence at 701 South New Hampshire street. This magnificent old colonial home with its forty rooms has been transformed into ten suites, each furnished in some unique period furniture scheme. The house itself has been christened Casa de la Marguerita and is to have its own name.
1923-04-15	Mae Marsh, who returns to the Griffith fold in 'The White Rose' after an absence of six years, comes back in an unexpected fashion. The little sister of 'the Birth of a Nation,' the pathetic little wife of 'Intolerance,' and the sweet and heroine of numberless Griffith dramas, plays an up-to-date 'flapper.' 'Instead of having the hero court me,' said Mae, 'I run after him, decking myself in the garb of the up-to-date flapper and pursuing him relentlessly. I had to study the psychology of the flapper, because she is a rare avis to me. In the past I have played the ingenue variety--the girl who wears a white dress and blue sash and who peers shyly upon the world through a mass of tangled curls. In 'The White Rose' my hair is bobbed and I forgo all my former earmarks of girlish sweetness. I become a brazen overdressed girl whose world is clothes.' Be this as it may, the 'flapper' must have her moments of pathos, because every one in the Griffith office who saw 'The White Rose' shed buckets of tears. 'Jack' Lloyd, who says he has a stony heart that never melts, cried all over his new monogrammed handkerchief. 'How did it seem to be working again for Mr. Griffith?' Mae was asked. 'Very strange,' she replied. 'I have had so many poor directors during the six years' interval since I left him--it took me several weeks to get used to his way of directing me. 'Do you know,' she said earnestly, 'I never realized how wonderful Mr. Griffith is. Up to the time I left the Griffith company to go with Goldwyn I had never worked for anyone else. I came to the old Biograph studios as a child and I thought all directors were like Mr. Griffith, but I hadn't been away from him very long before I knew why his pictures were better. There is as much difference between Mr. Griffith and the average director as there is between a genuine Corot painting and a badly executed imitation. 'In Florida,' said Miss Marsh, 'the people could not believe Mr. Griffith was a real director. They had seen directors wearing knee breeches and puttees, dressed in the height of fashion, going in swimming every day and creating a great deal of attention, and here was a man whose first thought was his picture. We worked like slaves and so did he. He didn't have time for any nonsense. As for dressing the part--he always wears the oldest clothes he owns when he is making a picture. His recreation was dining with the McLeans on the Pioneer, the houseboat where President and Mrs. Harding were guests and he had dinner with William Jennings Bryan several times.' Miss Marsh herself dined with Mr. Bryan and visited the McLeans. Now that she has finished her picture with Mr. Griffith she is formulating new plans for making pictures. She says these plans are too vague to be made public yet, but she knows what she wants to do and if she is able to get the right story she will be ready in a month to tell her secrets. Before she does anything she is going to her home in California with her husband and daughter and take a rest. One of Miss Marsh's most recent pictures is 'Paddy the Next Best Thing.' This is based on a play that ran in London for three years with Peggy O'Neil in the leading role. Lee Arms, who is Miss Marsh's husband, says he doesn't wish to be prejudiced, but he thinks it is about the best English-made film he has ever seen and he says his wife does some work that reminds him of the old-time Griffith pictures. Meanwhile, every one is waiting to see 'The White Rose.' In addition to Miss Marsh, Carol Dempster, Ivor Novello and Neil Hamilton, the Griffith find, are in the cast. It is said every Griffith picture brings some heretofore unknown player into notice and at the Griffith office they are saying that Neil Hamilton is this discovery. With Mae the day I had luncheon with her was her mother, Mrs. Marsh, who has kept her figure and who has masses of red gold hair that made her look as if she might be a sister, but never old enough to be the mother of Mae and the grandmother of little Mary Marsh Arms. Mrs. Marsh, with two actresses in the family and a son, who is considered one of the best cameramen in the field, knows all about motion pictures, and she was particularly eager to have Mae make a picture with Mr. Griffith. Marguerite Marsh is in vaudeville doing, her mother says, very well and so happy she hasn't thought of returning to the screen. I asked Mae if Mr. Griffith found her any different from the girl he trained in the ways of the screen. 'Some older,' she said, 'but just as eager to please him and get my scenes the way he thought they should be played. 'The sad part,' said Mae, 'is after playing with him I am going to be very hard to please in the matter of a director. He always knows exactly what he wants--and some of the directors I have worked for have made it necessary for me to go ahead and do most of picture myself.' 'The interest Mr. Griffith keeps in his former players,' Mae says, 'is one of the finest things about him. 'He talked of Mary Pickford, Lillian and Dorothy Gish and expressed interest in their work and recalled the old days when they all worked in the old Biograph studios. 'Days that were history-making because they were the beginning of better motion pictures. Days when one-reelers were the fashion and big salaries were unheard of. 'Most of us,' said Mae, 'leave when we get big salaries, but most of us are willing to return for less money because we know the picture will be good and that is something no one can promise with other directors. Mr. Griffith has only made one poor picture.' And because I refuse to admit that picture was poor I am not going to tell which one Mae considers beneath his art. Anyway, we all have a right to our opinions.
1923-04-22	Hollywood, April 21--Announcement was made today that Mabel Normand is to play the title role in 'The Extra Girl,' which Mack Sennett is now producing. This settles a much discussed question, as Phyllis Haver, who was promoted to stardom by Sennett for this production, resigned her association with the producer last week. Rumor has it that there was a disagreement over the story. Then it was said that Winifred Bryson would play the role, but there was apparently some hitch in that play, too, for today comes the news of Miss Normand's acceptance of the part. She will play 'The Extra Girl' immediately and later star in 'Mary Ann.'
1923-06-01	...It was while chatelaine of the Beaux Arts that Texas [Guinan] first drew the eastern filmers together, achieving a big financial and social success. She gave a farewell party for Pearl White before the star sailed for France to seek seclusion in a convent. Mabel Normand, George Beban, Anita Stewart, George Melford, Rubye de Remer, Nita Naldi, Allan Dwan, the Dolly sisters, Kitty Gordon, Bebe Daniels and all Pearl's friends were there, including the parish priest who counseled Miss White to seek serenity of mind and spirit within convent walls.
1923-06-06	Judge Monroe in Superior Court yesterday in dismissing a criminal action against Capt. Jose Fonseca, formerly an aviator in the Mexican army, bitterly arraigned the District Attorney's office for inefficiency and 'for cluttering up the courts.' The court 'bolted over' when the prosecutor arose and moved that the case against Fonseca be dismissed because of insufficient evidence. In dismissing the case, Judge Monroe declared that the suspect had been in jail for three or four months because of the loose method employed by the District Attorney and his assistants. The District Attorney's office knew, he declared, that there was insufficient evidence to convict the prisoner when the latter had his preliminary hearing yet he was kept in jail and finally dragged into Superior Court, where already the docket is overcrowded. Judge Monroe declared further that the tactics of the District Attorney's office were hampering the efforts of the courts to dispense justice and were aggravating the congestion in the County Jail. Fonseca was charged with the theft of an automobile from a local concern. He contended that he had rented the automobile and told the officials of the concern from whom it was rented that he would not return it for some time. He stated further that the company told him he could use the machine as he wished if he paid the rent for it. Fonseca drove the machine to Fresno, where he was arrested and brought back here. He was given a preliminary hearing and then held to answer to the higher court.
1923-07-01	The present generation will never see the really great motion pictures. The difference in film entertainment a hundred years from now will be as great as that between the present aeroplane and the ox cart mode of transportation of the past, is my contention. We are too close to the pioneering stage of the motion picture to develop its subtleties. We of this generation have been clearing away the brush, felling trees, blasting out stumps and carting away boulders. We are preparing the soil. With the next generation will come the cultivation of the really fine things on the screen. The most distinctive evolution in motion pictures will be in the 'language' of the pictures or their method of telling a story. The picture of the future will suggest rather than depict. An indication of this is had already. A man leaves his home and goes to his office. We show him today with his arms about his wife at the door. Then in his office dictating to a stenographer. When pictures were new we would have shown him running down to the curb, stepping into his automobile, riding, with trees, homes and telegraph poles flashing by, then with business houses appearing through the automobile window, alighting from his car, getting into the elevator, hanging his hat on the rack, opening the door with his name lettered on it, calling to his stenographer and then the dictation scene to which we jump now. Pictures ultimately will jump with the abruptness of present day cartoons. For instance, Jiggs contradicting Maggie. In the next drawing Jiggs on the sidewalk with a black eye and stars rotating around his head. You don't see him hit, but you know what has happened. Just as the pioneers of this country were in the main occupied with building their homes and developing the soil for the present generation which has developed the finer inventions now common in municipal life, so are we of the motion pictures merely preparing the way for the real things to be portrayed on the screen by the coming generation. But I want to call attention to the fact that certain producing organizations are stifling the progress of the motion picture by taking away from directors various responsibilities and lessening the importance of the director in motion picture production. This practice among some of the larger producing organizations disclosed in recent months of buying stories, adapting them to scenario form, casting the picture and building the sets before the director is engaged is one that will do more to block the progress of motion pictures if it is allowed to continue than anything else. Among one or two big companies the director is having less and less to say about the pictures he makes. In one instance, a fortune was paid for a story, an expensive cast was engaged and work on the building of tremendous sets actually started before the director was engaged. Then a director of doubtful talents was placed 'in charge' of the picture. Evidence of giving the director less and less to say about the selection of stories, the casting of pictures and the building of sets is had daily. But wonderful pictures from large organizations are very much the exception. Big organizations can maintain a certain average quality of production, but they cannot create the real masterpieces that mark progress in the march of the photoplay. Pictures, the kind that mean something to the industry, are the works of individuals who are solely responsible for all phases of production. The big achievements of Griffith, the late George Loane Tucker, Neilan, Ingram and others of prominence in the producing field embody the execution of the creative ideas of individuals and not the dictatorial conglomerations of large organizations. These men are allowed--in fact, they demand--free rein. In this manner only can pictures reach a higher average of merit. A review of film history clearly proves this. Organizations which endeavor to relieve the director of all the most important responsibilities of his job are blocking the path of progress. Such organizations may turn out a fair average product and keep the standard of production where it is today. They will never be conducive to progress. The motion picture cannot stay where it is. If it does not progress, it must stagnate. On the shoulders of the director should rest the full responsibilities of a production. To relieve him of any of these responsibilities and to compel him to confine his efforts to adapting himself to the ideas of a half dozen 'experts' will strike at the very foundation of successful pictures. If allowed to continue the motion picture both from artistic and financial standpoints will promptly start on its downward path in public favor.
1923-07-12	A name once familiar in every musical home, in every music store and once blazoned on the silver screen as author, director and composer, was scrawled yesterday on the blotter of a local court. It read 'Vincent Bryan-- one year in the City Jail.' Bryan, composer of popular songs of a decade past and author and director of many a successful film, reached the bottom step yesterday of a long descending road and turned his face to a new life, which must be viewed sadly through prison bars. His sentence was the result of a long and losing fight against the drug habit. Arrested by Deputy Sheriffs Bell and Conly and State Inspector Peoples last Saturday in the act of selling morphine, Bryan was tried before Police Judge Crawford. He was found guilty on a drug selling charge. His wife, Leota Bryan, was convicted of possessing drugs and was sentenced to ninety days. Her sentence was suspended. Bryan's will start today. Narcotics are to blame, Bryan says, for the wreck of his life. The promise he had of becoming rich and famous took wings when he began the use of dope. He started the habit, he told the court, in New York years ago when overwork and nervous strain had almost caused him to lose his job. For a while drugs enabled him to do more and better work. Then he and his wife became addicts, he said, though both believed that they could quit at any time. The inevitable awakening came. They faced the grim truth and admitted they were helplessly in the grip of the drug habit. Attempt after attempt to quit failed. Fear was followed by submission and poverty stalked close behind the expensive drug. They came to California and settled down to steady work. Bryan thought he had cured the habit. He made good as a scenario writer for Chaplin, for Lloyd and other stars and directed several pictures. But with making good again came hard work, long hours and nervous strain. The craving came back and he fell again. This time he did not break away. All his success, his work, his ambition gave way to his craving. He lost job after job and his money was spent. So that he might obtain the drug he became a peddler, but his success in that line was short-lived. His first sale, he told Deputy Bell, was the one which led to his arrest. Hope that he may break away from the habit in jail has given him courage. His adieu yesterday to his wife was cheerful and he promised that in another year a new chapter should be written, a chapter untainted by the specter of the 'stuff.'
1923-07-31	Antonio Moreno, film star, figures that $22,500 in the hand is worth more than $129,000 in the courts. So he has dropped his long-pending suit against the Vitagraph film corporation and accepted a cash settlement of $22,500, it was learned yesterday. Moreno, resplendent in a scarlet velvet costume of ancient Spanish vintage, and nonchalantly smoking an extremely modern cigar, verified the rumor when reporters found him on a stage at the Lasky studio. He said he had instructed his attorney, Neil McCarthy, to drop the action against the Vitagraph corporation. The suit was filed in January, 1922, after Moreno had been summarily 'fired' by the Vitagraph corporation. For months prior to that, it was known in film circles, he had not worked, although he had reported daily at the studio and drawn his check every pay day. In those months a long-drawn and heated controversy was in progress between the star and the corporation. They wanted him to play 'heavy' roles and he refused. He wanted youthful, dramatic and heroic parts. The day after he was discharged he filed suit for $129,000, which he alleged was due him for the unfulfilled portion of his Vitagraph contract. Later, after a long period of comparative idleness, he signed a long- term contract wit the Famous Players-Lasky corporation. Early this hear he and Mrs. Daisy Canfield Danziger, millionaire widow, were married. But Moreno, explaining his reasons for accepting a cash settlement in his suit, mentioned: 'I have no doubt that, had the case gone to trial, I would have received a much larger judgment. But I am married now, and need the money.'
1923-08-01	Ghost stories are rare these days, but a real ghost story has caused a lot of inconvenience to Douglas MacLean and his charming young wife. In fact, 'tis said, this ghost story caused them to rush their plans for building and leave their Los Angeles home for the unhaunted precincts of Beverly Hills. Mr. and Mrs. MacLean occupied an adjoining court-bungalow to that of William D. Taylor, who was mysteriously murdered. Recently, Mrs. MacLean began losing her colored servants. First one and then another would leave, without apparent cause. Finally, it was discovered that all of them claimed that at exactly the hour of Taylor's death every evening, they saw a ghost hovering--a white and appealing ghost,--about the Taylor bungalow, and that finally it would drift to the direction of the MacLean household. Douglas did his best to locate the spook, but without success, so the MacLeans moved.
1923-08-09	Mother Calls Mary M. Minter 'If I should die before I wake, and it would mean your redemption, I would gladly go.' With this prayer thought for her estranged daughter, Mary Miles Minter, famous motion picture actress, Mrs. Charlotte Shelby entered that dream world of unconsciousness that is next thing to death. Mrs. Shelby underwent a major operation at Good Samaritan Hospital Tuesday morning of this week for abcesses of the liver and dangerous intestinal trouble. Mary Miles Minter has talked a lot about 'liberty' since she left her mother's home, and refused to return. Death may help her attain that desired liberty, for Mrs. Shelby's vitality is so low that it is a question whether she recovers. Letter after letter Mrs. Shelby has written to her 'baby girl' imploring her to return. 'The vultures who have taken possession of your baser self will drag you down to oblivion,' wrote Mrs. Shelby to her little 'Juliette.' (Mary's name is Juliette O'Reilly.) This typecal mother lies today at death's door, and cares not whether she recovers. Life is not worth living if Mary is lost to her.
1923-08-09	Has she come?' Many times today Mrs. Charlotte Shelby roused herself on her bed of pain and asked the doctors and nurses that question, but each time they were forced to shake their heads negatively in sorrow, for her daughter, Mary Miles Minter, the film star, has not come to see her in the hospital. Miss Minter is in the Pasadena. Lying at the point of death, with a presentiment that she will not recover, Mrs. Shelby has implored a reconciliation with her daughter, but her pleas have continued to fall on deaf ears.
1923-08-10	Famed Film Star Called Tiny 'Czar' in Money Squabble Mary Miles Minter was pictured as a little 'Czar' in the Shelby family in a statement made by Miss Margaret Shelby, her sister.
1923-08-10	Mother never has refused a settlement with Mary,' said Margaret. 'To begin with, money was never discussed in our home. We had the happiest home imaginable. My mother has done what she thought was best for Mary and myself. It is bewildering to us why Mary has taken this stand. 'It is unfortunate that Mary should make these charges just now when mother is so ill. We both love her dearly and no matter what Mary says, it will not change our attitude towards her. She can come home at any time and be received with open arms.' But Mary Miles Minter smiled knowingly when told of her mother's plea for a reconciliation from her bed of pain. 'My mother is not in danger of death,' was her simple declaration. 'It is only a ruse to get me to call off a lawsuit contemplated for the accounting of the salary I have earned. 'Yes, I know, mother and Margaret say they love me better than anything else in life, that I am the very life and breath of their existence. 'They should have said 'I have been' all of that. I was, for where would either of them be without the money I have made? 'I do not have any affection for my mother. Let the world condemn, if it will. Even a worm will turn in time--and I have turned. Not because she is my mother. I want to love her, but she has driven me from her so far that there is no turning back. 'How can my mother expect me to love and obey her when I have seen the way she has treated her own mother for years--as a glorified servant girl at my mother's beck and call. 'Oh, yes I know mother and Margaret swear undying devotion to me. They should. I have been their meal ticket for years. If only they had made these protestations of love years ago, how different our lives might have been. 'It isn't so very long ago since I tried to cuddle up to mother. To kiss and fondle her. What did I get? Told to 'Don't be silly' or 'Don't make a nuisance of yourself,' in private, but patted for the benefit of the world at large in public. It made a good impression, you know. 'Perhaps love means more to me than it does to some young women my own age. I am 21, you know.'
1923-08-10	Emphatic denial of the charges made by Mary Miles Minter, famous motion picture actress, that her mother and sister had refused to account for the salary earned by her on the silver sheet, was voiced today by Miss Margaret Shelby, sister of the beautiful star. 'Mother never refused to render an accounting to Mary of the salary which she earned as a motion picture actress,' Miss Shelby declared today. 'I am too dumbfounded to know just what reply to make to the charges. It is a grievous surprise to me and it's hard to say how it will affect mother. 'Mother never has refused a settlement with Mary. To begin with, money was never discussed in our home. We had the happiest home imaginable. My mother has done what she thought was best for Mary and myself. It is bewildering to us why Mary has taken this stand. 'It is unfortunate that Mary should make these charges just now when mother is so ill. Her constant plea is for Mary. We both love her dearly and no matter what Mary says, it will not change our attitude towards her. She can come home at any time and be received with open arms.' Concerning the condition of her mother, Miss Shelby said she was 'painfully ill and under the care of two special nurses.' When further questioned as to the doctor's statements concerning the outcome of the operation which Mrs. Shelby underwent, Miss Shelby replied. 'The doctors have not told me that mother is near death. You know they tell one so little. We intended to bring mother home on Wednesday, but she is suffering so terribly that she cannot be moved. My grandmother and myself cannot bear to stay in the room more than a few minutes at the time and witness her anguish. 'But regardless of her suffering, mother's sole thought is for Mary. She calls for her and is willing to forget and forgive everything if Mary will only come. Mary has been the very heart throb of mother's existence for years. 'No matter what Mary has to say, mother will be glad to see her,' was the statement issued from the mother through Margaret Shelby, Miss Minter's older sister.
1923-08-10	Mary to Sue Her Mother Mary Miles Minter is Irish. She admits it and she looked it yesterday afternoon. Her big blue eyes blazed with wrath, then filmed with tears as she told her side of the story of the dissension in her household which brought about the estrangement with her mother and sister to the breaking point. 'They never would let me be a girl, to have a girl's pleasures, to do the things that other girls would do,' she said. 'I was never even allowed to have for myself the little pleasures shown in roles I played in pictures. I never had a doll, except that I held one in the pictures. I never had one all of my own. I never had a chance to play tag, or hide-and-go-seek or have a kiddiecar. I was always petted and pampered, tutored and touted, made to believe I was something I was not, do things I did not want to do, say things I did not mean. From morning till night I had money, money, money, talked and preached to me. I have earned lots of it, fairly hate it and have none of it. 'Mother is sick, quite sick, but she is not critically ill and has never asked for me,' said Mary. 'I talked with her just last Saturday. She and my sister known just where I am, where I have been living, have my telephone number and could get me on a minute's notice. I have not disappeared, never ran away and never tried to. I just left to be alone, to get away from the constant argument, from the posing, the nagging, the humiliation of being told that I myself have never done anything, would not have anything, had it not been for the watchful eye of mother and Margaret, my older sister, three years older than I. 'When I was a baby, just 4 years old, they took me away from my home and my daddy. We went to New York and mother accepted a theatrical engagement. Soon afterward I was given a part and ever since that time mother's work has consisted of drawing my salary. 'I was treated like a child always. Told when to go to bed, when to get up, whom to meet and whom not to meet. The very people I was working with every day were not good enough for me to associate with. I must be gracious to this and to that person because they stood high socially and were wealthy. 'The power of money was drilled into me on every hand. Mother said, 'be powerful even if you have to walk across the graves of others to get it.' She has no sympathy for the misfortune of another. 'The survival of the fittest,' was her watchword. 'She is her own best press agent. She knows what to say to create sympathy for herself. My sister Margaret is a 'yes-girl.' It's 'yes mamma' this and 'yes mamma' that.' All of which are but a few of the things which Miss Minter said as she announced her intention to take legal steps to secure an accounting for more than $1,000,000 which she asserts her mother has collected on motion picture contracts of the daughter. Formal notice of intention to bring suit has already been served, said both Miss Minter and her attorney. The trouble in Mary's home is said to have started shortly after she became of age a few months ago. At that time Mary is said to have decided to assume control of her own money and live alone 'if she felt so inclined.' Mrs. Shelby has always acted as the girl's guardian and objected to any change in the arrangements. Miss Minter declares that she is capable of taking care of herself and of her own money.
1923-08-10	Mary To Sue Her Mother Mary Miles Minter is Irish. She admits it and she looked it yesterday afternoon. Her big blue eyes blazed with wrath, then filmed with tears as she told her side of the story of the discussion in her household which brought about the estrangement with her mother and sister to the breaking point. 'They never would let me be a girl, to have girl's pleasures, to do the things that other girls would do,' she said. 'I was never even allowed to have for myself the little pleasures shown in roles I played in pictures. I never had a doll, excepting that I held one in the pictures. I never had one all of my own. I never had a chance to play tag, or hide and go seek, or have a kiddie car. I was always petted and pampered, tutored and touted, made to believe I was something I was not, do things I did not want to do, say things I did not mean. From morning till night I had money, money, money, talked and preached to me. I have earned lots of it fairly, hate it and have none of it.' Mary's mother, Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, is reported to be seriously ill at the Good Samaritan Hospital and to be asking for her daughter. Mary is living at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Philip J. Hurn of Altadena. 'Mother is sick, quite sick, but she is not critically ill and has never asked for me,' said Mary. 'Why, I just talked with her doctor. She's sick, of course, and I knew she was going to have an operation. I talked with her just last Saturday. She and my sister know just where I am, where I have been living, have my telephone number and could get me on a minute's notice.' I have not disappeared, never ran away, and never tried to. I just left to be alone, to get away from the constant argument, from the posing, the nagging, the humiliation of being told that I myself have never done anything, would not have anything had it not been for the watchful eye of mother and Margaret, my older sister, three years older than I. 'When I was a baby, just 4 years old, they took me away from my home and my daddy. We went to New York and mother accepted a theatrical engagement. Soon afterward I was given a part and ever since that time mother's work has consisted of drawing my salary. 'I was always treated like a child. Told when to go to bed, when to get up, whom to meet and whom not to meet. The very people I was working with every day were not good enough for me to associate with. I must be gracious to this and that person because they stood high socially and were wealthy. 'THE POWER OF MONEY WAS DRILLED INTO ME ON EVERY HAND. MOTHER SAID `BE POWERFUL EVEN IF YOU HAVE TO WALK ACROSS THE GRAVES OF OTHERS TO GET IT.' SHE HAS NO SYMPATHY FOR THE MISFORTUNES OF ANOTHER. `THE SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST' WAS HER WATCHWORD. 'SHE IS HER OWN BEST PRESS AGENT. SHE KNOWS WHAT TO SAY TO CREATE SYMPATHY FOR HERSELF. MY SISTER MARGARET IS A `YES-GIRL.' IT'S `YES MAMMA' THIS AND `YES MAMMA' THAT.' All of which are but a few of the things which Miss Minter said as she announced her intention to take legal steps to secure an accounting for more than $1,000,000 which she asserts her mother has collected on motion picture contracts of the daughter. Formal notice of intention to bring such suit has already been served said both Miss Minter and her attorney.
1923-08-11	..Her mother, Mrs. Shelby, who has been painfully ill at the Good Samaritan Hospital, following an operation, yesterday refused to be interviewed, but her daughter, Margaret, entered an emphatic denial to the statements of Miss Minter. 'Mary will not always feel as she does at present,' said the elder sister of the beautiful young star. 'The time will come when she will realize that everything mother has done has been for her best interests. 'Why, mother has often begged Mary to take the money that rightfully belonged to her. In fact, my mother has always worshipped Mary and has acted only for her best interests. 'Personally, I am in no way involved in the matter. This financial affair is entirely between my mother and Mary. I have never received one cent of the money my sister has received.' But it is a different story that Mary tells regarding the handling of the family funds. 'My sister started in the real estate business on money earned by me,' she declared in answer to Margaret's statements. 'Anything that Margaret wanted was all right, but I cannot even sell the automobile in which I drove away from the home which was purchased and kept up with my earnings.'
1923-08-11	Asked concerning the refusal to occupy the apartment which her mother set aside for her in their new apartment house which Miss Minter says is rightfully hers, she said: 'No full grown girl of my age could possibly live there under the rules and regulations laid down by my mother. 'I was given to understand that I could live there but could have no motion picture people or writers call upon me. Also that I had to put my lights out at 10 o'clock and could have no music in the evening. 'I protested and told mother I could not live under those conditions and she said, 'Very well, then you won't live in my house until you do.' 'Now you know some of the things that have made me dislike my mother. You can't go on sowing the wind without reaping the whirlwind. That's what mother is getting from me. She taught me, bit by bit, to distrust her. I can't help it. I just can't!' 'Would you go back if your mother settled everything amicably with you in regard to freedom of conduct and money matters?' Miss Minter was asked. 'Go back?' The wide blue eyes flashed resentfully. 'Not if I had to scrub floors first. I'm through. I'm going to live my own life.'
1923-08-11	Millionaire Mammy Where's That Money o' Mine The sensational New Mother Song, as sung with great publicity by (Mary Miles) MINTER & SHELBY (Charlotte) MARY MILES MINTER: 'Mammy, where's the million that I gave you When I was working on the Lasky lot? You know that I have earned the family money Ever since I was a tiny tot. But now I'm past sixteen. I'm going to use my bean, So--unless I get the coin--I'll make it hot! Oh, Mammy, right that wrong, Please listen while I sing my song: 'Mammy! Mammy! You are worth a million to me! Gimme! Gimme! Or I will sue--you will see! When I had a job With Mister Paramount You took my paycheck 'Cause you thought I couldn't count: NOW, MAMMY! GIMME! You gotta give my million back to me!' CHARLOTTE SHELBY: 'Mary, don't be cruel to your Mammy! Mother's always loved her little gal. Ever since your baby days at acting Remember Mother's been a faithful pal! No matter what you say, Come, see your Ma today, For she is helpless in the hospital!' Laughing at this moan Mary called her Mother on the Phone: 'Mammy! Mammy! You are worth a million to me! Gimme! Gimme! Or I will sue--you will see! You made me what I seem today, Just beautiful and dumb! I'm tired of all the shushing, So I'm going to make things hum. NOW, MAMMY! GIMME! You gotta give my million back to me!'
1923-08-12	Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, mother of Mary Miles Minter, the film star, broke her silence yesterday and told her side of the controversy. 'Our home life lacks only Mary,' Mrs. Shelby said. 'Her apartment is out there. And in the part of the home occupied by ourselves--it only lacks the joy of Mary. 'In the patio are the things she loves--the birds in their swinging cages, the gold fish in the fountain, flowers everywhere--her tiny 'poms' waiting for her call. [4] 'Mary wants her freedom to do as she wills. I have lived to protect her from that freedom until her mind is disciplined; until she is able to make wise decisions in the important things of life. I have wanted to see her philosophy of life based on fundamentals that make for happiness and content, and when she has acquired these, then will she be entitled to the fortune she has earned.' Mrs. Shelby so far had recovered last night that she was taken to her home from the Good Samaritan Hospital.
1923-08-13	Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, Mary Miles Minter's mother, who was brought home from the hospital Saturday, was reported yesterday as much improved. 'She is still in a very weakened condition, and her vitality is extremely low, but she was so glad to get home that I am sure it will make her feel better,' declared Margaret Shelby, Mary's older sister, yesterday. 'We have tried to keep mother from knowing that so much was being published about this trouble, but it's terribly hard, as she insists on having the papers brought to her, and it almost kills her to read the terrible things that have been said. 'Why, I love my sister and would do anything for her, and, after all, you know, 'blood is thicker than water.' I have saved every letter that Mary ever wrote me--I even have one that was written when she was five years old. 'I am sure it's not so that I have been using Mary's money. What little I have I have made myself in the real estate business. Margaret then told how she got her start in the real estate business in Los Angeles. 'And I have done it all myself. I bought one little piece of property when I first came and sold it at a profit, and then I bought another piece, and now I am interested in a wonderful tract,' and she showed the reporter a bird's eye sketch of the property. 'Are all those pretty houses in the sketch on the property now?' asked the reporter. 'Mercy, no! Why, if I had the money to build them I could make lots of money.'
1923-08-13	Miss Minter has frequently said that she believes she is under constant surveillance and recently acquired an automatic pistol, which she keeps beneath her pillow in her room.
1923-08-14	Minter-Taylor Betrothal Admitted Admitting that she was engaged to William Desmond Taylor, noted film director, at the time of his death, Mary Miles Minter yesterday for the first time bared the details of her romance with the slain man. 'For more than a year and a half I have kept secret that which was the sweetest and holiest thing in my life--my love for William Taylor,' she said. 'I loved Mr. Taylor the first moment I saw him. And today, nearly two years after his death, my love for him is stronger than ever. 'I knew but little of Mr. Taylor's past life, but I knew that he was an honorable gentleman in all the word implies. He was a man's man, yet withal a man of gentleness and kindliness. He was cultured, but yet not immune to the human feelings of mankind. 'I cared not who or what he was, for when he put his arms around me and said, 'Mary, I love you,' I knew that he was the one man in the whole world for me. And when I think that if it had not been for the continual bitter opposition to our engagement I would have been his wife it is almost more than I can bear. No wonder I am bitter. 'My whole life was wrapped up in him. When I would come home from the studio I would dream of the home in which William Taylor and I would spend the balance of our lives. 'But, no, he was too old, I was told. He was not an old man. William-- possibly you think it strange that I called him William or Mr. Taylor, but I so worshipped him that I could not think of calling him Bill--used to tell me that he would not allow me to sacrifice myself on a man his age. ' 'I wonder if I am doing the right thing?' he would often ask me. 'You have brought me the greatest happiness of my life, but you have come at the time of the Setting Sun, while you are in the glory of youth.' 'But I would not have it so. I knew that the years I spent with him, no matter how short, would be the happiest of my life, and we often discussed the little home we were going to build up in the Hollywood Hills. 'Then came his death. It was like a bolt from a clear sky. I was simply stunned. With my soul starved for love by the life I had led at home, his tenderness and kindness seemed doubly sweet. 'It was at this time that all the pressure possible was brought to bear by those under whose influence I was at the time to see that my engagement with Mr. Taylor was kept secret. 'I mustn't talk; it would hurt my career; it was the same old story of hushing and shushing. The public must never know that I was engaged. I must be a little girl with golden curls. It would never do for the world to know that I was a human being instead of a doll-faced automaton.'
1923-08-14	Love Diary of Mary Minter is Bared The silent leaves of Mary Miles Minter's love diary spoke today and told for the first time their heart-throbbing story of a tragic romance which has extended beyond the grave. With the passion and pathos of a literary classic they voiced of the thrill and thraldom of the deep and enduring affection of the beautiful young motion picture star for a man more than twice her age. The diary is bound in scarlet moire silk, as scarlet as the life-blood of William Desmond Taylor that stained the floor of his home on that memorable night he met death at the hands of an assassin, and in it Mary Miles Minter has recorded the yearnings and longings for her lost love. The first entry in the book was made two weeks after the death of Taylor. 'Oh, my beloved, where are you?' the heartbroken girl wrote. Then she described her longing for the man whose arms would no longer embrace her. 'You were to have been mine. Had I known you were to have been taken from me no power on earth could have kept us apart.' It was night. In the distance music was playing. She recorded memories of happier times when music, which Taylor loved, had been a part of their lives. She told of her hours of anguish and bitter weeping for the man who was gone. 'Where? I do not know, my beloved. But you are near, somewhere, of that I am certain. You could not leave me so utterly hopeless, alone and forlorn.' Nine days later she again makes an entry of her grief and loss in the little book. This time 'Chummy,' the dog Taylor gave her, was stolen. 'They have even taken away what you have given me,' she wrote. 'How a dog can understand! Better than most humans.' Then in Honolulu, in June. Again the dancing throng of that playground of the Pacific recalled happier days with the man she had loved and lost. But she believed Taylor was not far away. She felt his presence and the little diary carried a message not of a hopeless death, but to one who had 'gone away for a little time and would return again. 'It is night again, dearest, our time of peace and surcease from the stress of life that grows so weary at times. Morning will come all too soon: and with its coming will begin again the weary tasks of life. Life without you, dearest, is weary. Our love was like a great white star that burns its way across the heavens. They are dancing down below. I can see them from the window. The lovely gowns look like bright colored balloons against the dark background. 'Oh, Desmond, my love, where are you? Surely not so far away but that I will find you somehow, somewhere?' It was June again, in California. A year has rolled by since the last entry in the little diary. But the heart-hungry girl is still seeking her lost one. She is a woman now and realizes more fully her loss. 'How long, my love, how long until you clasp me again in your dear arms?' That is the love of Mary Miles Minter for William Desmond Taylor, who rests under the golden sunshine in 'God's Acre,' where sleep the dead of this and other generations.
1923-08-15	Mary Minter Story Stuns Mrs. Shelby Prostrated by her daughter's revelation of her romance with William Desmond Taylor, Mrs. Charlotte Shelby has suffered a relapse. When shown the story of her daughter's engagement and the culmination of her tragic romance, she read the article from beginning to end, only to reply; 'I can't talk; it is all too terrible. Please leave me alone in my sorrow and grief.'
1923-08-15	How old is Mary Miles Minter? Is she 30 years of age, as her father says she is? Is she 21 years of age, as her mother says she is? Or is the age of the beautiful motion picture star as much of a mystery to others as it is to herself and as she recorded in her diary, along with her heart secrets of her great passion for William Desmond Taylor when she wrote, 'Nobody knows my real age.' The little book, whose mute revelations of the great love Mary Miles Minter bore her ill-fated fiance, has spoke again. 'Nobody knows my real age,' Miss Minter wrote. 'Even Jeanie McPherson, my closest friend, does not know that. They tell me I am a child. Perhaps I am. Yet I feel tonight, since you went away,'--referring to Taylor's death-- that I am 50.' In news dispatches from Dallas, Tex., where he is employed on a newspaper as a proof reader, Homer Riley, who declares he is the father of Mary Miles Minter, emphatically states that Mary Miles Minter is 30 years of age. The mystery of Miss Minter's age also may throw some light upon the recent avowal of the girl that Mrs. Shelby was not acting in purely a motherly role in attempting to disrupt the romance between Miss Minter and William Desmond Taylor, slain film director. At the time of Taylor's murder Mrs. Shelby declared against the protest of Miss Minter that her daughter loved Taylor in a fatherly fashion. 'She knows better than that,' Miss Minter vehemently declared. 'Mother knew just how I loved Mr. Taylor. There was no fatherly love in our relationship.' Miss Minter then declared that her mother had endeavored to play the role of rival for the love of Taylor.
1923-08-15	Documents Located in South Mary Miles Minter was 21 years old April 25, last. The statements attributed to her father that she was 30 years old were officially exploded today in dispatches received from Shreveport, La., where the official records showed that she was born April 25, 1902, and christened Juliet Riley.
1923-08-15	Mother Loved Taylor, Says Mary Minter 'Mother liked William Desmond Taylor very much. In fact she tried to interest him in herself. She sought to put me in the background and her interference in my romance was not because she wished to protect me but because she considered me a rival.' This new revelation of Mary Miles Minter, casts a different reflection of the movie star's relations with her mother, Mrs. Charlotte Shelby and leads friends of the girl to believe that perhaps love and rivalry and not finances after all is behind the quarrel between them. 'Mother thought that he was more her age than mine and she sought in every way to win his favor. It was not until she discovered that he cared more for me did she cease extending him the warmth of her friendship. 'When Mr. Taylor realized my mother's attitude--that she tried to keep me from him through jealousy--he, in his kind, considerate way, told me I was a little girl and that I should consider my mother. 'You know I love you more than anything in life but you must do nothing to displease her,' he told me.' A report from the Shelby home today indicated that Mrs. Shelby is willing to make any settlement with Mary providing the girl gives no more interviews regarding the Taylor affair.
1923-08-15	[The following is an edited combination of her own written account published in the TIMES, and an interview published in the HERALD.] Mary Minter Bares Taylor Love Affair It has happened! For months and months I have been hoping and praying that my differences with my mother might not bring up again the dreadful incidents of the murder of William Desmond Taylor. I have tried and tried to make no references to it in my statements concerning my effort to secure an accounting from my mother, but newspaper reporter after newspaper reporter has hounded me day and night always with questions, questions, questions about Mr. Taylor. The Times is the only newspaper which has not done this and because of this fact I am now giving the first statement that I have ever given under my own name. William Desmond Taylor came into my life when I was 17 years of age. He was the first man ever to call me Miss Minter. 'How do you do, Miss Minter?' he said to me when first we were introduced, and then he smiled. Always before I had been called Mary and treated like a child by men and women alike, but Mr. Taylor called me 'Miss Minter,' which at that age, heart hungry as I was, made an instant impression. From that moment he fascinated me. I loved him the first time I saw him. 'This is God,' my heart sang when I looked into his face. I know the world will think that a very immature age and a very foolish conclusion for one so young. But you must remember that while for the last three years of my life my mother has tried to keep me a 'little girl' with curls down my back, she earlier had made me appear and act older than I was. When I was 8 years old I was passed off for 16, twice my age, and dressed as a midget, with high heels and long skirts, so that I could play the stellar role of 'The Littlest Rebel' at the Chicago Opera House. That was because the state law of Illinois prohibited children under 16 years of age from appearing as professional performers. These things have an effect upon a child that all the training and coaching in the world cannot eliminate. When I went into the movies it was different. Then mother wished to undue all the training of maturity she had imposed upon me and have me appear unsophisticated and simple, childlike and trustful. It was paradoxical. But I matured very quickly in this glorious sunshine and gorgeous setting of California. With the passing of the adolescent period, it became very evident to mother that men were attracted to me. I liked the company of men. They were jolly, good companions, splendid comrades and were not forever saying, 'Don't do this,' or 'Don't do that.' It worried mother because I was popular with them. The few with whom I came in contact were not attracted to Margaret. This was a bitter pill to both her and mother. Margaret is older than I and mother thought she should be given preference. But if a girl does not naturally attract men, all her efforts will fail. That was the status of things when I first met William Desmond Taylor. I knew when I laid eyes on him that he was the one man in the world for me, and that he reciprocated my love. It was not long afterward that we were in New England making a picture. My mother, my grandmother and sister were with the company. I used to listen for his footsteps as he came into the door of the little hotel where we stayed. I recognized them as they went up the stairway and into his room, which was just over the little parlor where we all sat. One time we all went into Boston for a dinner party for me. He rode in the automobile between my grandmother and me. The road was rough and bumpy, his arms were spread across the rear of the back seat in which we rode. One bump threw grandmother against him and he said, 'I guess I will have to hold you.' But his arm did not embrace me. 'Dare I? Dare I?' I said to myself. I dared and I reached up and tugged at his coat sleeve and he dropped his arm about my waist. And coming home he did the same thing again. The thrill of that innocent act thrilled me for days and days. We spent what little time we could together, which was not much because mother always watched and every night after I had gone to bed she used to sit in the little parlor with him just as much as he would let her while he was working on his script. One day it rained dreadfully. We were out somewhere and he wrapped his coat about me and took me to the hotel. There stood mother, fairly raging. She accused Mr. Taylor before the entire company of taking me out, humiliating him most shamefully. For two days I hardly spoke to him and then I apologized for mother's action. 'Your mother is right, Mary,' he said. 'She is right and you must always obey her.' That was the beginning of quarrels between mother and I. He soon left and came to California. Grandmother and I came later, while mother and sister remained in the East. Sister Margaret had a sort of beaked nose and she had it operated on to straighten it out. That kept them in the East. We had a glorious reunion when we came west. Grandmother and I went riding with him, to dinner, to the theater. Then mother came. He used to call at our house. But soon mother noticed his preference for me. She put a stop to it. Until she knew of my love for Mr. Taylor, she had only words of praise for him. Then, suddenly, she turned against him. I told Mr. Taylor of her attitude. 'Your mother knows best, Mary. I am an old man,' he would say. Then I would kiss the words away. I did not know Mr. Taylor's age, but he was not old in spirit or understanding and that was all that mattered to me. He was mine. I wanted him, to be his wife, to be able to do the thousand and one little things for him that only a wife can do. I would have married him then and there, but he said we must wait. 'Wait a while, Mary dear,' he would caution. 'Ah, do not think I don't want you, child. It is not that. But because of my great love for you I would shield you from the unkindness of the world. And the world would never forgive me for blighting your career. We must wait.' But I did not want to wait. Perhaps many women would be ashamed to admit what I have admitted. But I am not ashamed. Our love was a glorious thing. 'Why should we wait?' I would protest. As long as we had each other what else counted? Then I wrote letters, passionate, impulsive letters. Some of them were published. Many of those letters were written two years before he died. And he kept them. That was my one thought at the time. He kept them. Surely he must have loved me deeply, sincerely, to have kept them for so long. I did everything I could to make him break his resolve and marry at once. Not to wait until I was older. I loved him, oh, so sincerely and he loved me. He told me so many, many times. We were never engaged in the sense that he had asked me to marry him and I had promised. I had always hoped that sometime we would be married. But I had planned in my own mind--never with Mr. Taylor--that as soon as I had made enough money so that mother and sister could be assured of a comfortable income for the rest of their lives--that perhaps we would be married. But not engaged in the sense of wearing a ring, or of telling one's friends of an intention to marry or of telling my mother. Marrying Mr. Taylor was just my dream--a dream which, voiced to film, always met with the answer that it was impossible. Then mother took me to Europe. She told me of the lovely things we would buy over there. Things that were to be for my home, she said. Where are they today? Mother has them, if you please, and tells me they are not mine but hers. Mr. Taylor went to Europe, too. But I did not get to see him. Mother saw to that. I pleaded with her to let me see him but she always insisted that she would not permit me to throw myself at Mr. Taylor's head. So we tramped all over Europe, always careful to keep a safe distance between me and the man I loved. Eventually we came home. Mother and Margaret stopped over in Chicago and I came on west, home. I sent Mr. Taylor a message and he met me with flowers and a lovelight in his eyes that told me his affection for me had not diminished during my absence. I had a few days of delightful comradeship with him before mother returned, for my grandmother understood our great love and did not offer any interference. But when mother came home again Mr. Taylor was forbidden the house. Whenever I could I would slip away with Mr. Taylor, but the times seemed so far apart. All too seldom. Finally he told me I must not write him any more and must not call him up, that he would telephone to me. I waited a week, two weeks, three weeks and he did not call. I swallowed my humiliation and called him. His butler answered and told me he was ill. He was too ill to talk with me. I gave the butler instructions of what to make him eat, to see that he was well covered during the night. For five days he did not eat a thing and during it all I suffered more than I can express. Early in December before he was shot I had telephoned him and told him that I must see him. We had not talked with each other for weeks. We would pass on the lot and he would smile so sweetly, but in his eyes was the love- light that none but I could see. He made an appointment for me to come to his house in two weeks. Grandmother and I went. The house was dark. I was heartbroken. In the keyhole I twisted one of the little golden hairpins that I wear so that he would know I was there. No word from him, no telephone call. On December 23 I was downtown buying some Christmas presents--one for him that I never got to give him. I have it still. There in the store opposite me in another aisle he stood. He smiled so sweetly, bowed and was gone. The clerk came and brought some samples of something and I told her to wrap it up. I don't even know what it was, I was so dazed. My maid grasped me by the arm thinking I was going to faint. He went away. A few nights afterward I could not sleep. Everyone had gone to bed. I tiptoed to my grandmother's room and told her I must go to him. She tried to dissuade me, offered to go with me, but I told her no, that this was something I must do alone. I gathered up his pictures and a little golden mesh bag he had given me and stopped to write him a note. It said: 'Dear William Desmond Taylor: This is good-by. I want you to know that I will always love you. Mary.' I got out my car myself and went to his house. There was a light shining behind the blind. I rang the bell. All was silence. My heart stopped. I was afraid that perhaps he had gone out and that he had left the lights burning. But then I heard the rattle of a newspaper, the door opened and there he stood. 'Why, Mary,' he said. 'It's quite late, isn't it?' 'Yes, it is, nearly 12 o'clock,' I answered. 'But I must see you,' and I pushed past him into the room. I noticed things were changed. That the furniture was moved, but on the wall there still hung my pictures, two of them and one of Mabel Normand. 'Mary you should not have come here,' he said. He was trembling, seemed to grow old standing before me. Perspiration covered his brow. 'Here, read it. It's good-by,' I said, handing him the note I had written. He read it and without a word turned to his desk, fumbled about and then handed me a note. 'I thought you had gotten this two weeks ago,' he said. I started to open it. 'No, no,' he cried. 'Not here.' 'But I must,' I said. 'I must. Maybe there is something in it I must answer.' 'No, I beg of you, I entreat you. I cannot stand it if you do. Don't!' 'Then tell me that you love me,' I said. 'I love you Mary, better than anything in this world, more than God,' he answered. He led me to my car, helped me in. I reached out and squeezed his hand. In the house he had clenched his teeth, his face was drawn; his fingernails had been gripped so hard that he brought blood when the nails cut the skin. He had used a silk handkerchief he had tucked in his upper coat pocket to wipe away the blood. As we stood by the car door I pulled this handkerchief from his pocket and took it, handing him mine. He kissed it and slowly walked back into the house. I drove home. That was the last time I ever saw him alone. After that a few times I met him on the lot. Again he smiled and spoke, but that was all. In February one morning I was dressing. It was about 11 o'clock. I was standing in my undergarments before the mirror fixing my hair. I heard my mother's footsteps coming, pat, pat, pat down the hall. I knew something was wrong from the way she was walking. She pounded on the door. 'Let me in,' she said. 'But I am not dressed,' I protested. I had on nothing but a chemise, and mother always scolded me if I appeared before her even in a negligee. 'Let me in,' she fairly shouted. 'Let me in or I shall break down the door.' All this time she was pounding. I told her she must wait until I got into a dress and then I opened the door. 'What do you think has happened?' she said. I looked at her, for she seemed greatly excited. 'William Desmond Taylor has just been found murdered in his bed.' She added some more words which were not altogether complimentary to Mr. Taylor. 'Where were you last night?' 'I was here, of course,' I said, hardly realizing what she was saying. I was dumbfounded. Mother talked on in a most excited manner. I can't remember what she said--all of it--but it was something about this would teach me a lesson and how to behave myself in the future. Then mother said, 'Well, why don't you say something?' I couldn't. I was too hurt. I grabbed a hat, a wrap and then began to look through my pocket book, through the drawers of the dresser. I was hunting for the keys to my car. I thought I would go frantic in the few moments that it took. 'Where are you going?' mother asked. 'To him, of course,' I replied. 'You cannot, you cannot. I shall not let you,' she said and stood before the door to stop me. 'You'll not leave this room. I'm going to lock you in and here you'll stay until I say you can come out.' I pleaded with her. 'You've kept me from the man I love in life and you can't keep me from him in death. I'll scream and raise the neighborhood. I am going to him if I have to throttle you to get past,' I cried. And she stepped aside. I drove to his home in a daze. Newspaper reporters, officers and other people were before the house. They were carrying out books and papers. 'Who are you and what are you doing here?' they asked me. 'I am Mary Miles Minter and I have come to see Mr. Taylor,' I answered. 'But he is not here. They have taken him to the undertakers,' they said. I got in my car and drove downtown to the undertakers. I drove and drove, round and round that block until finally I found the place. I went in. I asked to see him and they told me I could not, that they were trying to find the bullet. 'I must see him. I must see him,' I told the man. 'You cannot see him until after the inquest,' I was told. 'It is against the law for me to let you see him before.' Finally he promised me that I could see him the next day at noon and I went away. Then I drove to Mabel Normand's home. I was frantic. Without ringing the bell I went in. There were reporters in the parlor waiting for her. I rushed upstairs. She was dressing. I grasped her by the shoulders, shook her and looked straight into her eyes. 'What do you know about it?' I asked. 'Nothing,' she answered simply. 'Not a thing but what they have told me.' And I believed her and still believe her. The next day I went to the undertakers and they let me in all alone with him. I pulled back the sheet and looked at him. But he was not the same. His skin was waxen. I leaned down and put my arms about him, my cheek next to his. His face was cold, so cold, but not a cold like ice. 'Do you love me, Desmond?' I said. He answered me. I could hear his voice. 'I love you, Mary; I shall love you always,' he whispered. I kissed him and put a red rose in his hand from some I had brought with me. The door opened. The undertaker was there. I went away. Mother and the attorney did the talking for me. They told of my childlike affection for an old man. How I trusted and loved him as a father. But I tell you here and now it was no childlike affection. It was a full grown woman's love for her mate. For William Desmond Taylor is the one great love of my life and always will be.
1923-08-16	Everybody appeared to be sick of the whole thing. No one was to be seen. Sister Margaret was out--for the day. Mrs. Shelby too ill to be seen. Mary Miles Minter has disappeared, seemingly into thin air. Evidently the generals in both camps needed a breathing spell, or did it mean retreat? The Shelby-Minter duet was evidently to be given the soft pedal. In one short week, they had run the gamut, with Mary's high angry trills, and mother's low dignified alto. With Mary's doll story thrown into the ring for comedy, and the William Desmond Taylor case dug up to supply the tragedy. The play seemed over, and the audience ready for a new farce or tragedy.
1923-08-16	Mary Miles Minter is Gone Mary Miles Minter may perhaps not be missing, but she certainly is absent--A.W.O.L. may be the better way of putting it. Mary's friends searched for her in vain yesterday. At her Pasadena bungalow it was reported that she did not come home Tuesday night and had not been there during yesterday. At the home of Mary's mother, the home on South New Hampshire Street which Mary says is really hers, and not Mrs. Charlotte Shelby's, a maid volunteered the information that Mrs. Shelby was very weak and could not be seen. Her daughter, Margaret, is the constant companion of her mother. Miss Margaret is declared to have laughed outright when she read an evening newspaper stating that in reality Mary is more than 30 years of age. Margaret, who has always admittedly been an older sister, said it was really a good joke--i.e., the item of Mary's age.
1923-08-17	...The Shreveport birth record may add an element of mystery to the whole question because of one notation on that document. According to advices from the Louisiana city, in the blank reserved for the name of the baby is merely the information, 'J. H. Riley's child.'
1923-08-17	Miss Minter is Found After spending what she characterized at 'the two happiest days of my life, because I did not see a single reporter,' Mary Miles Minter was found by a reporter for the Times late last night. But Miss Minter made up for time lost away from reporters by declaring she has not 'disappeared,' but is only seeking seclusion, that she is 'still keeping advised as to mother's health,' that she has not signed any theatrical contracts as yet; and that she will be very grateful if anyone can prove to her that she is 30 years old, as reported. Miss Minter's statement is as follows: 'If the Los Angeles Times or anyone else in this world can prove that I am 30 years old, I will be deeply grateful to them. I supposed I was only 21 years old. If I am really 30, I will be able to collect from my mother a much larger sum than I hoped to get. 'The money I am seeking an accounting for comprises my earnings under my Lasky contract for the past three years, or, in other words, since I have been of legal age in California. The three years is on the basis that I am 21 years old. My mother has always told me that the legal age is 21 years, therefore, I had supposed I was a minor until my twenty-first birthday. As a matter of fact, however, legally I have been my own boss for three years and did not know it. 'I have made considerable sums of money in pictures in the years prior to my eighteenth birthday. Therefore, if I were now 30 I could have more years of earnings for which I could seek an accounting from my mother.' In the meantime Mrs. Shelby is reported as still too ill to be interviewed. Miss Margaret, upon orders of the family attorney, has nothing further to say. Word was also received from Dallas that the correct age of Miss Minter is 21 years. J. H. Reilly, her father confirmed that Miss Minter was born in Shreveport, La., in 1902. He also denied that he had made any statements to the effect that Miss Minter was 30 years of age.
1923-08-18	She heard of her dashing husband's affairs from time to time. She even indulgently answered his 'mash notes' when he was too lazy to write the letters himself, which he frequently was. 'Here are some more letters from mushy dames!' he would laugh, and throw the letters into her lap. But one night came something more serious. The wife was alone in the house, except for the children, who had gone to bed. The servants, Japanese, went home at night. Came a rap on the door, --a timid rap,--and the wife wondered why the visitor did not ring the bell. But she was no coward, and besides that timid rap did not come from any burly intruder, she was sure of that. She opened the door, and there stood a girl with a baby in her arms. It was so like a melodrama that the wife felt a horribly hysterical desire to laugh when the girl asked for her husband! 'So it has come at last!' she said to herself, still with that awful clutching at her throat,--the hysterical desire to laugh and weep. She knew now that she had been expecting something of this sort to happen. The girl was crying, and looked so helpless,--so utterly as a victim of her husband would look, she thought! The wife asked the girl to come in. The girl, young and very pretty and modishly dressed after a cheap fashion, brightened and came in. She felt no pang of jealousy when she looked at the girl, oddly enough, she thought to herself even then,--but she felt a terrible, clutching feeling, half anger, half piercing pity, when she looked at the baby! It was all as the wife had expected from the first moment she looked at the girl. The baby was her husband's! She never thought to doubt the girl's story. It didn't occur to her until afterward that this was odd. But the girl was so evidently miserable, heart-broken, and her claim was made in such frank, genuine, if heart-broken, fashion, that the wife had to believe her. 'I'm only an extra girl,' the girl said hurriedly, after satisfying herself that her seducer was not at home, and that the wife had only pity in her heart for her. 'I do love my baby so, but my mother died last week, and there is no one to care for him! Oh, my darling mamma! She did love my baby so! She was so good to me! Some mothers would have been cross, but she never was. She was just sorry! All the time, she was just sorry. And she loved my baby! 'Now--I think you just must--you just must adopt my baby and--' The wife started back. She had expected a call for money, but not for this. 'Yes,' the girl said firmly. 'There isn't any other way. I've thought it all out. My baby cannot go to a foundling asylum. I couldn't bear that--nor for anybody but his own father to have him!' The wife was sunk in thought. The baby was a dear baby. 'I'll kill myself if you don't!' the girl threatened desperately. 'Yes, we'll do it!' the wife suddenly decided. What mixed motives there were beneath that decision! It was all generosity on first impulse. Then followed the subtle thought that her husband could never look at the little one without remembering his fault! And he should care for it, and pay its bills. Her husband would not dare refuse, she knew that. For the girl would certainly make a scandal. The girl promised never to see her baby again. As for herself, she had long passed the stage where she could feel any active resentment against the girl. She was only one of many, she thought drearily. And the baby was a dear baby! So the little one found a home. And the child will never know the difference between its own mother and this foster one!
1923-10-01	The preview nights at 'The Writers' in Hollywood are becoming increasingly popular. Big new films are shown there for the first time to members of the club only. The recent showing of 'Going Up,' the new Douglas MacLean comedy, nearly brought down the roof. A very select and celebrated audience came to view it, including Mr. and Mrs. William de Mille, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Brabin (Theda Bara), Mabel Normand, Mrs. Leslie Carter, Sir Popham Young, Clara Beranger, Josephine Quirk, May Allison, Richard Dix, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Ray and a number of prominent writers. Theda Bara declared as she went out that 'we don't think Mr. Chaplin ever made so funny a comedy,' and William de Mille told his party during the film that he considered it the best comedy he had seen on the screen. Charles Brabin said: 'I haven't laughed so much since the old Weber and Field days.' So it looks as though Douglas would enliven the coming season with that rarest and most delightful of screen entertainments--a dramatic comedy.
1923-10-14	The first day I ever worked in pictures,' said Mabel Normand, 'Griffith was directing in the old Biograph Studio in New York. He kept the company so late it was nearly 1 o'clock when I got home, but I had a pay check for $8. I got overtime, you see, for I was just an extra. My mother said: 'No, can't do that,' so I never went back.' Mabel admits she was pretty green about pictures when she began. Alice Joyce told her of the studio and asked her to come down, but the famous little comedienne wasn't interested. 'You see,' she admits, 'I wanted to be an artist. I was studying painting and drawing at the Art Students' League in New York, and I had to earn the money for my lessons by posing. I worked every morning for Howard Chandler Christy and every afternoon for Henry Hutt. Each of them paid me $1.50. That $3 looked like a lot of money when I earned it, but I had to pay 30 cents to get home to Staten Island every night and so I was just about able to pay for my art and piano lessons.' One day Christy gave her a holiday--with pay. She's very careful about that. She didn't have to work and she would get her money so she decided to go down to the old Fourteenth street studio and see what it was all about. 'The first thing I saw when I got inside the studio door,' Mabel relates, 'was the most beautiful creature--all blonde and dressed up--with big blue eyes and gorgeous golden hair which came nearly to the floor. 'I looked at her and then I looked at myself. I had on a little blue dress my mother made and a trimmed hat. I thought I had a lot of hair, too, but it didn't come anywhere near the floor, so I just said to myself, 'No, you won't do,' and started for the door.' Griffith had seen the little wide-eyed visitor. His name didn't mean much then, and nothing at all for Mabel, but when the messenger he sent stopped her at the door she went back. 'He made me go to work, all dressed up in a page's costume, you know, just a funny little suit without any skirts, and I was terribly embarrassed. All I had to do was to stand still by the side of the beautiful blonde who was a queen, or something.' Finally Mabel admits the work was finished and she got a check and went home. 'I didn't know there was anything more for me to do. I didn't know the pictures went on for two or three days before they were finished, so I went back and posed for my artist again and went to school and got up every morning and practiced my piano lessons from 6 o'clock until 7.' That was the Mabel Normand of ten years ago. Happy, earning her $3 a day, she dreamed of becoming a great painter whose pictures would be shown in the famous salons of New York. Yesterday Miss Normand's car stopped before the Biltmore entrance. The doorman smilingly ushered the star of 'The Extra Girl' into the Galeria Real. Checkroom girls fluttered with eager eyes as she passed and three head waiters bowed low as she sought a small table for tea. No queen could have been received with more deference; royalty itself could not have accepted the courtesies with a more gracious charm. While her painting has had to be discarded, the Mabel of today encircles the world with her pictures. Not of oils and canvases, to be sure, but none the less creations of her own art. It was several months after her first adventure that Mabel finally went back to the studio, and then she played 'vamps.' 'They dressed me up in long, clinging clothes, taught me to make up and gave me a big hat to wear--oh! a lovely hat--the biggest I'd ever seen,' continued the star. 'I loved the hat--in fact, I could hardly bear to leave my dressing room mirror to go out on the set.' The little slim girl of 15 or 16 didn't have the opulent figure then considered necessary for the vamping roles, so she describes her efforts at padding. 'I had to use towels to stuff around in the places where I was too little,' she chuckles. 'Baby vamps and the 'boyish form' hadn't become so popular then. 'Mr. Griffith would say: 'Now thrown back your head and half shut your eyes and look at him that way,' and I'd do it, and on the screen it seemed a wicked look. Then D. W. would snap me out of that mood and say: 'Sparkle, Normand, Sparkle,' and I'd flicker my eyelashes and pout my lips and think I was a regular actress doing heavy stuff.' It was some time before the comedy qualities of the little star were discovered. 'I thought, being dark, I must always play the wicked woman on the screen,' Mabel continued. All the heroines were blondes at first, you know, and I never dreamed I could make any one laugh with me--although they must have laughed at me often enough, I'm sure,' she added. Finally Miss Normand was put into the Griffith stock company, but one day a friend whispered, 'I know where you can get a new contract--and get $100 a week.' The sum was unbelievable, but persuasion led the actress to rival producers down the street. Sure enough, there was the new proposition. 'Those men offered me the hundred right enough,' said Mabel, 'but I just thought it was a joke and wouldn't consider it. I was rattled, too, and kept on saying, 'Why, I couldn't! I'm getting $25 now from Mr. Griffith. I'd have to ask him first before I promised you.' 'There's nothing in that old bromide about 'he who hesitates is lost,'' adds the star, 'because when I'd repeated it often enough that I was getting $25, they finally raised their own offer and brought out a contract made out for $125 a week. I signed it and when I got out of the office I was so excited I walked from Sixteenth Street way up to Times Square and back again without an idea of where I was going or why.' That was the contract that brought her to Los Angeles and proved the stepping stone upon which the little actress mounted and mounted up the cinematic scale. And incidentally, while the silversheet artistry of her smiles and tears became 'bigger and better,' her name on a contract also became something for producers to think about, especially when they were adding ciphers to that first of the four figures which are necessary to any documents Mabel even considers today.
1923-10-14	Los Angeles, Oct. 8.--The American public demands 'types,' It has a standardized conception of the farmer, the banker, the Western sheriff, and scores of other characters, a conception which it will not allow facts to alter. So Maurice Tourneur told Samuel Guard, of the American Farm Bureau Federation, in an open letter this week, when Guard challenged the screen depiction of the farmer. Complaints that film producers have 'failed' to depict farmers, but prefer to picture them as 'hicks and rubes,' Mr. Guard declared in a statement at a federation convention that its publicity division would produce its own pictures unless the farmer was given justice. Tourneur's reply has given wide publicity in newspapers here which published Guard's original statement. Pete Smith, Tourneur's press representative, saw to that. The letter follows: 'The American public demands types. It recognizes a farmer as a farmer only when he chews a straw, wears jeans and chin whiskers. It wants a Texas sheriff to wear a sombrero with a six-inch brim, not a derby, as one of my acquaintance does. 'You are quoted in a news dispatch from Chicago in this morning's Los Angeles Times, a dispatch doubtless printed in hundreds of other newspapers as saying that 'the farm is modern and up-to-date, with all the conveniences of the city, but the film producer has woefully neglected to keep pace with the farmer. They fail to depict us as citizens, but prefer to picture us as hicks and rubes. We don't want this kind of caricature before the public, and if the motion picture interests won't picture rural life and districts as they should be, we intend to produce our own pictures.' 'That, sir, would be a financial mistake, from which I hope I can save you by two statements of fact. The first is, no propaganda film has ever returned enough to repay the cost of making. The second is, if you can show us how to make a financially successful motion picture depicting rural life without introducing into it characters which picture fans will instantly recognize as rural characters, I shall be only too happy to do so. 'No American bankers that I have met wear frock clothes to business. Yet the public would not recognize a banker without a silk hat and frock coat. I have lived most of my life in France. I never shrug my shoulders. I gesticulate no more, I dare say, than you. But if I were depicting a Frenchman on the screen I would both shrug and gesticulate frequently. 'Gypsies, today, I found during several weeks of visiting Southern California camps, travel in motors and live in tents. Some of them even have gasoline stoves and hot water flowing from the tank through a faucet. But when I filmed a gypsy story, 'Jealous Fools,' his Summer, I pictured a band of them living in the wagon; tradition says they do. Gypsies in a motor would not have been accepted by the motion picture public. 'Life as it exists in the imagination of the American public is not life as it is lived, but it is the life that must be pictured for the public's entertainment, whether in a novel or a newspaper, on the stage or on the screen. 'Every man with an income of more than $5,000 a year and who habitually wears a white collar, is a clubman in the newspapers, particularly if he is involved in a scandal. Every feminine member of his family more than fifteen years old is a society girl and beautiful in the same circumstances. 'All newspaper reporters carry notebooks, all Englishmen wear spats and a monocle, all Southerners besprinkle their conversations with 'you-all' on the stage. All detectives carry caps and false whiskers in their pockets; all farmers' daughters have the purity of the lily and a complexion like a rose petal; all chorus girls live in great luxury and sell their charms to the highest bidder--in novels. 'Do sailors really have a sweetheart in every port? Do all policemen have big, flat feet? In how many barber shops have you ever heard a barber shop chord? Is a manicure girl necessarily naughtier than a milkmaid? 'If you still object to chin-whiskered farmers who lift their feet high enough to step over the stubble as they walk, come to Los Angeles, and within Twenty-four hours I will have summoned, through a motion picture employment bureau, a hundred men who have spent their whole lives on farms, who do wear chin whiskers and do step high. 'Although California farmers, as a class, are the wealthiest in the country, I will take you to a score of farms within fifty miles of Los Angeles which have no water supply, except the barnyard pump, no light except that from an oil lamp, no automobiles, tractors or other modern machinery; farms on which the owner owns no clothes, except those on his back, where the barn is bigger and more substantial than the house.' (signed) 'Maurice Tourneur.'
1923-10-21	Edna Purviance emerges. Behold the little lady of Charlie Chaplin's slapstick comedy fame, whose sole duty was to look nice and sweet and get ogled and bumped into by a rummy-looking little comedian for lo, these many years, suddenly transformed into a star dramatic actress. There isn't any doubt about the stardom or the amazing dramatic talent after one has seen Chaplin's 'A Woman of Paris.' The only question is, is it inherent, all her own, or is Charlie her Svengali who hypnotically compels that evidence of genius? So I called her up at 8 a. m. one morning--an awful test of temperament. And sure enough she answered, serene and cheerful, the same placid natural Edna I had known years before. And then we had lunch together. She arrived punctually on the dot, chic, tailored, smiling, quietly radiant. Nothing blase about Edna, even if she does play the role of a disillusioned demimondaine in 'A Woman of Paris.' And she still has her sense of humor--that precious asset which has sustained her amazing friendship with the temperamental Charlie through so many vicissitudes. She can laugh good-naturedly, almost maternally at Charlie--as the Polas, Mildreds, Claires, Mays and Peggys never could. They understand each other so well, these two. I think Edna has always loved Charlie--but she never let him break her heart. She would smile understandingly, with masterly inactivity. And so, of all the women in Charlie's life, Edna has been the most important factor. Just once did she blow up in a sumptuous rage--after the thirtieth rehearsal of the scene in 'A Woman of Paris' where the girls show her the magazine article about the coming marriage of her 'gentleman friend.' Charlie, monsieur le directoire, was awed into docility. Pola had handed him one or two of these temperamental uprisings, otherhow, otherwhere, so he was case-hardened to those. But this was the placid Edna in a new guise, a rare guise, a very much alive and dominating guise. It impressed him mightily-- and thereafter the picture went with infinitely smoother gait. I asked Edna about this thrill of emergence. She laughed and said Charlie had kept them all working too hard, too furiously disciplined, too concerned about his emergence rather than their own, so she really had not had time to settle down to the thrill yet. But yes, she loved it. Yes, she was ambitious. But she was in the hands of Charlie. She had no plans apart from him. Her one concern was to catch his ideas, see eye to eye with him, feel his ideals, portray his inspirations-- for the greater glory of Mr. Charles Spencer Chaplin, director, author, producer. Her portrayal of Marie, the demimondaine, is truly remarkable. It must be remembered that the demimondaine is a distinct class in France. She is not a common prostitute, but invariably a girl of good family and education, whose lack of a 'dot'--a marriage portion, so essential in French marriages-- inclines her to accept the position of 'mistress' or 'petite amis.' It really amounts to a recognized profession in the edge of society. It is understood that she is 'exclusive'--and loyal to her well-to-do 'protector.' Thus she is not supposed to portray either passionate romance or sirenical vampireness. And her momentary craving for 'respectability,' for home, husband and babies--which offers so sumptuous an opportunity for sophisticated cynicism in the play--is natural, as is her quick reaction to professional considerations, her restored poise, her crushing of emotions. Your well-bred demimondaine knows full well that violent emotions are unbecoming in a lady in her position. There has been some criticism that there were no real love scenes between her and the young artist who commits suicide for her sake. Edna defends this. She was not supposed to be in love with him. Rather is she guarding her emotions against falling in love with her wealthy, dashing, sophisticated 'protector'--which would be such a sorry faux pas. But the artist lover did represent respectability, marriage, homes, babies, and it was rather in this sentimental guise that we are to accept her interest in him. Her weeping over the bier is regret only for sorrow brought to that family through her. On his understanding, Edna's portrayal is masterly, brilliantly natural. Edna says that during the making of the play Charlie would say, 'Now if this happened to you in real life, what would you do?' She would answer conscientiously and then be told to go ahead and do it. 'Never mind keeping your face to the camera,' said Charlie, 'your emotions will be seen and felt through any part of your body at any angle, if you act well.' This, said Edna, gave one such a wide scope, left one free to be so natural. So you see, Charlie was not doing very much of the Svengali hypnotic stuff. When Edna sits on that railing, after being locked out of her home, one actually sees her soul harden. There is scarcely a movement, yet we see her crystalize into dumb, cynical, resigned despair. And when she boards that train alone, believing that she has been deserted by her lover, just a lone unhappy girl in a deserted station at midnight, we get that quiet little bit of cynically hopeless resigned desperation with utter poignancy. No heroics, no heaving bosom, no tears and wailing, not even fear--just stark dumb cynical resignation. But the Edna that can portray all that is the most placid, cheerful wholesome personality in real life. A thoroughly normal and very pretty woman with her emotions in comfortable control. Many men have loved Edna but she never loses her head over them. There was the British major who was almost ready to sacrifice the British Empire for her during the war days. There was the handsome polo player whom gossip has tried to marry her to. And there was Charlie himself in bygone days. But Edna is placidly, engagingly platonic with them all, just a soupcon of flirtatiousness, you understand, enough to be interesting, but no grand- stand passions. I don't think she will ever reach the front page in that guise. It is interesting to recall that she was a Nevada miner's daughter. She met Charlie as a quiet unpretentious little girl at a party in San Francisco, where they played spiritualism, table-turning and hypnotism. Charlie vowed he could hypnotize little Edna and she consented. She became absolutely rigid and fell taut to the floor--giving Charlie the scare of his life. Clever fooling--which promptly won Charlie's dramatic respect. He invited her to come down to Los Angeles and see how pictures were made--and that was the beginning of her professional life. Her first part was that of a nice inoffensive girl in 'A Night Out'--in the making of which Charlie bullied her like a pickpocket. And her last comedy part was in 'The Pilgrim'--still a nice quiet inoffensive little girl in the choir, and Charlie still bullying her like a pickpocket. 'I never knew what they were all about,' laughs Edna. 'But I know we were in the throes of the Mildred Harris affair during 'Shoulder Arms,' and the finale of it through 'The Kid,' and the Pola affair through 'The Pilgrim,' and the finale of that through the first days of 'A Woman of Paris,' and I guess that is how I keep my history dates in mind.' And she smiles placidly, a little wistfully perhaps, and trips off to a reducing treatment, waving me farewell. Reducing is the one thing Edna takes seriously. It entails lettuce lunches and sparse dinners and no breakfasts, iced tea. She says she has gained five pounds since they finished the picture--and Charlie does prefer them slim. In the meantime she has bought a lovely new home and lives with mamma and sister on Fleetwood Drive.
1923-10-21	I went to interview Buster Keaton with one ambition in mind--I would make him smile just to see if he could. He can. He favored me with a broad grin, upon our introduction. Maybe he thought I was funny, but that's another story. The comedian makes a business of never smiling during his films. When he was asked why he said that he didn't consider his work any joke. He has acquired the habit of keeping his face immobile only through years of study, and it is perhaps because of this very trait that the Keaton face has become famous. At least that is one of the reasons. It was difficult to make him say anything. I never saw anybody so unwilling to talk. This is a characteristic which Buster must find very helpful on lost of occasions. Anyway, being a star of the silent drama seems to have its effect. Well, after we sat quite still for a few moments I decided to ask him how he liked the baseball games. He came on for the especial purpose of viewing the world series and so it was not amiss to imagine that he would want to say something about it. 'Oh, the games,' said Mr. Keaton, 'they were fine.' 'Were you satisfied with the outcome of them?' said I. 'Sure,' replied Buster. 'I bet on the Yanks.' 'Did you win much?' 'Not much; a couple of dinners and the tickets.' That seemed to conclude the conversation so far as he was concerned. 'When are you going back to Los Angeles?' I ventured next. I knew all the time that he was leaving in the afternoon of the same day, but it made something to say. 'This afternoon,' and Buster considered that settled. 'You will be glad to get back, I suppose.' 'Yes.' It seemed that he agreed with me on that subject too. Buster fumbled for his watch, and I thought he was about to commit the deadly sin of looking at it, but he had no such idea in mind. Attached to the other end of the watch chain was a little platinum locket. Silently he opened it and presented it to me. A cherubic face smiled out at me. It was Buster Keaton, Jr. 'Does he look like you?' I ventured. 'Exactly,' Buster assured me. It was the first display of enthusiasm. 'I thought so,' said I as I handed him back the locket, assuring him it was the loveliest picture of a child I had ever seen. That must have made a hit with Buster, for right away he began to take more of an interest in the interview. The next time I interview anybody who seems to not care much about it I am going to ask straight away if he happens to have a picture of his baby with him. If he has I'll know what to do, and if he hasn't I'm going to consider myself out of luck. Mr. Keaton then proceeded to divulge some secret about the making of comedy pictures. It seems they have no script at all. 'You could write the whole plot on a post card,' said he, 'we do the rest.' So far as I could understand the making of comedies is very much like the juvenile sport of 'playin' theatre.' You don't know just what you'll do until you do it. 'The director, a couple of scenario writers and I sit around and discuss a scene. That is how the gags are made,' said Mr. Keaton. 'Then we shoot the scene. Lots of things develop during the actual taking of the picture which we hadn't thought out at all.' Having learned all there seemed to be to learn about the simple process of making comedies I asked him if he ever thought of confining his activities to the more serious drama. Did he have any secret longing to play Hamlet or Macbeth? Buster hadn't. He looked disapprovingly at me for the mere suggestion of such a thing. I don't believe he cares much about the two gentlemen in question. 'I would like to play 'Merton of the Movies' thought,' he said. Then somebody said something which struck Buster as humorous and he smiled a broader smile than I thought him capable of. 'How,' said I, 'do you keep from laughing during the filming of your pictures, or don't you believe in laughing at your own jokes?' 'It is hard sometimes,' he confided. 'I particularly remember one time in Philadelphia, where I went to attend the opening of one of the Loew theatres. We paraded up and down the streets in automobiles and I had on my serious expression. Lots of little kids yelled, 'Why don't yer give us a smile. Somebody tickle him and make him laugh,' and so on, and it was hard that time not to burst right out laughing.' Then we came back to the subject of Buster, Jr., again. He appeared in Buster, Sr.'s last picture, 'Hospitality.' It was his debut as a screen actor. Incidentally, father and mother Keaton appeared in the same picture with son Buster, and Natalie was in it, too, making three generations of Keatons in the one offering. 'He's a great kid,' said Buster, Sr., proudly. 'And there's a vacant space in the other side of the locket, you may have noticed. I'm reserving that.' 'Well, he sure is a lovely kid,' I reiterated, first because I really meant it and secondly because the subject of the baby seemed to be a common bond of interest. 'He sure is,' Buster agreed, and it was plain to be seen there was no argument there. 'Well,' I chirped, 'know any more jokes?' It was inopportune and Buster noticed it. He actually laughed, but loud this time. 'What do you think of that; I show her the baby's picture and she asks me do I know any more jokes.' Evidently I had made an unforeseen nifty, but we laughed that off and everything was fine. Keaton left for Los Angeles last week and expects to begin work on a new picture soon. What it will be about he hasn't an idea, but between you and me and the rest of the world I'll bet it will be funny.
1923-11-01	Jane Cowl's presentation in Los Angeles of 'Romeo and Juliet'--one of the finest things ever seen on the American stage--woke a storm of enthusiasm among motion picture artists. The opening night saw a really amazing gathering in the big auditorium. Douglas Fairbanks and Mary Pickford were there. Norma Talmadge, and Joe Schenck, Constance Talmadge-in a green frock with a little tight silver turban, accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. Earle Williams, Mabel Normand, with Paul Bern and wearing the most exquisite summer evening frock of organdy lace and embroidery over coral taffeta, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Brabin (Theda Bara) in an exquisitely draped gown of yellow satin, in a box with Mrs. Leslie Carter. Pola Negri, in black with some artistic and fascinating dashes of Oriental color, Charles Chaplin, William S. Hart, Ethel Clayton, May Allison, Leatrice Joy, in apricot taffeta, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Meighan, Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Ray, Mr. and Mrs. William de Mille, and Mr. and Mrs. Fred Niblo (Enid Bennett).
1923-11-03	Following the arrest yesterday of Margaret Gibson, pretty actress, known in the films as Patricia Palmer, by Federal agents on a charge of extorting $1155 from George W. Lasher, wealthy electrical contractor of Burbank, it was learned last night that Miss Gibson is only one of many men and women who are to be taken into custody here and elsewhere as the alleged members of a blackmail ring which has mulcted prominent and wealthy men of more than $3,000,000 during the past few years. Federal, county and local officers have been working on the case for months and it is asserted that other warrants have been issued, but that the names of the persons accused are being kept secret until they are apprehended. Arresting officers declared she obtained the money by threatening to prosecute Lasher on a 'white slave' act charge. She was taken into custody at the home of her mother, Mrs. Ella Gibson, 2324 North Beechwood Drive. After being questioned by Lucien C. Wheeler of the Department of Justice, and United States Attorney Joe Burke she was arraigned before United States Commissioner Long. He ordered her held under $2500 bond pending a preliminary hearing on November 8. Her arrest was said by Federal agents to be an aftermath of the recent expose of a Hollywood blackmailing ring headed by Dan Osborn and Rose Putnam. This pair pleaded guilty and were sentenced in Federal court in Cincinnati last week for extorting $10,000 from John L. Bushnell, Springfield, Ohio, banker. The circumstances surrounding the alleged 'shaking down' of the Burbank business man have been under investigation since the early part of February, it developed yesterday. After the arrest in Cincinnati of the two blackmailing suspects there, who had formerly lived in Hollywood in a house rented from Miss Palmer, Agent Connelly was sent to Los Angeles by the Department of Justice headquarters at Cincinnati to trace other activities which were credited to the pair. Connelly worked the case here in collaboration with Agent Meehan of the local Federal office, Police Lieutenants Reed and Shafer, and with Special Investigator Charles Riemer of the District Attorney's office. The actual warrant of arrest was served by Deputy United States Marshal Henry Yonkin. The Federal officials stated that they had delayed action in the matter until every angle of the alleged blackmailing ring had been thoroughly investigated. Osborn lived in Hollywood at 2575 Beechwood Drive, in a pretty bungalow he rented from Miss Palmer. According to Federal agents, Lasher was introduced to Miss Palmer several months ago in this house. Later, the two went to Tia Juana in Miss Palmer's automobile. At the border city a party was staged. A bet was made between Lasher and the picture star, and Lasher signed a check for $1000. During the course of the festivities, he was administered 'knockout drops' by somebody in the party, he told the Federal agents, and when he came to himself he stopped payment on the check. Mrs. Gibson, mother of the screen luminary, is said to have gone to Lasher and threatened to make trouble for him on the ground that he had taken her daughter across the border with wrongful intentions. It was a short time later, according to Lasher's statements to the Federal men, that the screen star herself declared unless she 'came across' she would cause his arrest on a Mann Act charge. During her arraignment in Commissioner Long's court the pretty film star was tearful and stood with bowed head through the proceedings. 'It's just a put up job, I never took a cent of his money,' she sobbed. She said that she had only met Osborn, the blackmailer, in a business way, and that she had never had any dealings with him except as to renting her house. 'This is simply a matter of personal spite, and they haven't got anything on me at all,' she declared, in a tone so low that it could scarcely be heard. She vehemently denied ever threatening to 'expose' Lasher unless he provided her with funds. The screen star's mother was with her throughout the proceedings, as also was the accused star's attorney, Patrick J. Cooney. Miss Palmer was in trouble once before with the authorities. She was arrested in 1917 by police during a raid on a Commercial Street rooming house and a charge of vagrancy was placed against her. She was acquitted of this charge at the trial. Although she never attained stardom in the films, she has played a number of important roles in various pictures during the last six years.
1923-11-03	Miss Margaret Gibson, petite film player, known professionally as Patricia Palmer, was today at liberty on $2500 bail, following her arrest yesterday, as reported exclusively in The Evening Herald, on a charge of extorting $1150 from George W. Lasher, wealthy electrical contractor of Burbank, under threat of federal prosecution. At the same time it became known that Miss Gibson is but one of a number of men and women scheduled for arrest as alleged members of a blackmailing ring declared to have victimized wealthy men of an enormous sum of money during the past few years. Miss Gibson denied that she had threatened to 'expose' Lasher unless he provided her with funds. 'I never took a cent of his money,' she declared. 'It's just a matter of personal spite.' Her only relations with Don Osborn, convicted in Ohio of blackmailing John L. Bushnell for $10,000, had to do with the renting of her house to him, she said. The arresting officers stated, however, that Miss Gibson was introduced to Lasher by Osborn, and that the confessed blackmailer later advised the asserted victim to make a settlement with the girl. Miss Gibson accepted her arrest with a philosophical calmness that was almost startling, officers said. After accepting service of the warrant at the door, she called to her mother and said: 'Mother, these gentlemen are officers. George Lasher has sworn to some kind of warrant and I'll have to go with them.' 'All right,' returned the mother, quietly. 'Are you going to jail?' 'I suppose so,' returned the girl. And she went.
1923-11-03	Margaret Gibson, known as Patricia Palmer in the films, where she attained prominence, was arraigned late yesterday before United States Commissioner Stephen G. Long on a charge of violating Section 145 of the Federal Criminal Code. Bond was set at $2500, which she had failed to make late yesterday, and the preliminary hearing announced for the 8th inst. The victim of the asserted extortion is George W. Lasher, electrical contractor of Burbank, who told officers that he paid the young woman $1155 to avoid prosecution for asserted violation of the Mann Act. According to the Department of Justice Agent-in-Charge Wheeler, Miss Palmer is connected with Don Osborne and Rose Putnam, convicted blackmailers, who pleaded guilty last Tuesday in Cincinnati to extorting $10,000 from John L. Bushnell, Ohio banker. Miss Palmer was arrested at her home, 2324 North Beachwood Drive, yesterday morning by Detective Lieutenants Reed and Shafer, Investigator Charles Reimer of the District Attorney's office, and Department of Justice agents, who have been working on the investigation for several weeks. On last Saturday Miss Palmer was said to have married Arthur McGinnis at Santa Ana. She gained the limelight several years ago when, under the name of Margaret Gibson, she was arrested in a raid on a Japanese rooming-house. She was charged with vagrancy, but was acquitted of the charge in Police Court. For the last several years Miss Palmer has played in numerous motion- picture productions and has recently been working at the Lasky studio. She formerly played with Louise Glaum, and her picture, 'Into the Light,' was exhibited in a Broadway Theater a few weeks ago. Last January Miss Palmer sold to Osborne, a house a 2575 Beachwood Drive. Many parties were given there with a large attendance of film celebrities, said Wheeler. In the latter part of January, said the officers, Osborne called in Lasher to do electrical work, and on one occasion introduced him to Miss Palmer. A trip to Tijuana followed, Lasher declared, at which time both he and Miss Palmer put up checks for $1000, making a wager. He said he realized something was wrong and went to Los Angeles, where he stopped payment on the check. He was later approached by Osborne, he said, who told him it would be best to pay the money. He said Mrs. Ella Gibson, the girl's mother, threatened him with the prosecution on the Mann Act, in taking the girl across the international border to Tijuana. Her threats followed, he declared, and he paid her sums of $75, $800 and $280 to escape prosecution. This payment forms the basis of the government's charge against the girl, as the Federal statutes declare that 'whoever extorts money on the threat of informing of a violation of the law shall be subject to a fine of $2000 or a sentence of one year, or both.' Miss Palmer was accompanied by her mother at the Federal Building. Her attorney, P. J. Cooney, stated that he would soon have her bail arranged. 'It's a frame-up,' said Miss Palmer, in answer to questions concerning the affair. On Osborne and other incidents she was silent.
1923-11-05	Did I fall for Patricia Palmer?' George Lasher, tall, rawboned proprietor of the Burbank Electric shop, whom the pretty actress is charged with blackmailing to the extent of $1155, grinned squintingly and of good- humored pale blue eyes, then scratched his sandy red thatched cerebellum ruminatively. Glancing with humorous shiftiness at his pretty little dark-haired wife, who was blushing furiously as she hovered uncomfortably near, Lasher spurted into impetuous frankness: 'This Patricia Palmer--or Margaret Gibson--'ud make a smarter guy tham I am fall. Why, sure I fell. You know what a feller's after when a dame with eyes like that'--Lasher rolled his own--'hooks him.' He elucidated upon the fact that he didn't mind being trimmed, that he'd a-never 'squawked'--even though she had separated him from over a thousand 'iron men.' 'I'd a-taken my medicine,' he nodded stoically, 'and I didn't say anything about the girl until the government agents had made their investigation--which I didn't have anything to do with. 'Mrs. Gibson--the girl's ma--knew I was a married man--and she smiled her consent to her girl and I stepping out in their auto. 'But me for my little wife here from now on--she's my boss now and I won't do anything again to hurt her--yeah, we're sittin' pretty, now, and we're goin' to be happy, ain't we?' Mrs. Lasher forced a febrile smile. 'Every guy lets his foot slip once or twice,' Lasher rambled on, 'but there's no use being a glutton for punishment. 'When a pretty gal gets sweet on ye, an' you're married, make up your mind that she's got your bankrool covered with her good eye. 'She took me like Grant took Richmond--for eight hundred, for two hundred and eighty and for seventy-five. That's eleven hundred and fifty- five hard-earned ducats. 'But down in Tijuana I got wised-up to her. I begin to figure a couple o' guys was in on the game with her. You know the fellers I mean,' he laughed shakily. 'So I said to myself, 'George, get ready to duck out.' 'How did I come to after they slipped the knockout drops in my drink? Well, I never exactly passed out. I felt myself slipping. They already had my check for a thousand following Miss Palmer, Patricia, Margaret, y' understand, winning the bet that that she could drink me under...'[illegible gap] ...whole affair because he was questioned by Department of Justice Agents Mechan and Connelly, who were investigating a giant blackmail ring. Miss Palmer, alias Gibson, was arrested at the home of her mother, Mrs. Ella Gibson, 2324 North Beechwood Drive, and later released on $2500 bail, with a hearing set for November 8. Lasher was introduced to the girl by Don Osborn, who recently pleaded guilty in Cincinnati, Ohio, along with Ruth Putnam, to charges growing out of an alleged attempt to blackmail John L. Bushnell, banker, of Springfield, Ohio. Osborn, according to the federal investigators, had purchased a home from Patricia Palmer at 2575 Beechwood Drive. From certain sources it was learned that four members of a blackmailing ring were slated for arrest in Los Angeles and San Francisco Monday, with other arrests to follow in other cities of the Unitied States. It is said that in most cases the ring has preyed on wealthy married men through clever and pretty women, trips to Tijuana and threats, finally, of Mann act prosecutions.
1923-11-09	Ella Margaret Gibson, known to fans of the silver screen as Patricia Palmer, yesterday was freed from a Federal charge accusing her of extorting $1155 from George W. Lasher, Burbank electrical contractor, on threats to prosecute him under the Mann White Slave Act. The motion to dismiss the charge was made by Assistant United States Attorney Mark L. Herron, when the preliminary hearing of the screen actress was called before United States Commissioner Long. Insufficiency of evidence was the reason given for dropping the case. Frank Dominguez, her attorney, stated that rather than force Lasher to give her money, following a trip taken to Tia Juana in Miss Palmer's automobile, Miss Palmer had in fact given Lasher money, and that he had in his possession checks totaling $600 which the actress had given Lasher. 'This poor girl has lost her job, her mother is seriously ill in bed, and now we are politely informed that it was all a mistake,' he thundered. Commissioner Long said he regretted very much that the matter had gone as far as it had.
1923-11-11	A gracious tribute to the memory of William D. Taylor, murdered director, was paid yesterday, in an interview by Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks. 'The most patient man I ever knew,' Mrs. Fairbanks said, and her husband added. 'We all knew him as a gentleman of whom the film industry might well be proud.' 'We were horribly shocked,' Mrs. Fairbanks said, 'to learn of his death and we simply refuse to believe the innuendos against his character. Neither of us were intimate friends of his, but he had directed me and we naturally were well acquainted. 'Both as a gentleman and as an artist I respected him. 'He was ever courteous, considerate, and above all, patient. It's pretty hard directing all sorts of people in big pictures, members of the casts often being temperamental and even stubborn. He never had a harsh word to say to anyone and would spend all sorts of time and energy to get just the artistic results he wanted. 'To me and to everyone who ever mentioned him to me, he was always the quiet, reserved, artistic gentleman. The films could not have lost a more valuable or more beloved member and I cannot deplore too much the fact of the tragedy or the attendant notoriety. 'We are hardly ever out and have our own small circle of friends, and so about his private life we know nothing. But it seems a shame that these girls should have to be linked up with such a ghastly crime. Although I know none of them well, I have always heard of them as nice, well thought of citizens.' To this statement Douglas Fairbanks added only that he had met Taylor a few times and though not an intimate of his, knew of him as a man of the highest caliber and a man who was ever trying to make of the films something finer and better.
1923-11-25	That shorter feature productions will come back into favor among producers as a result of the present condition of the producing industry is the contention of Maurice Tourneur, following a survey of producing and exhibiting conditions. 'The present slump in the producing industry has proved to film executives that it is a fallacy to make a so-called special production for the sake of achieving a physically big picture,' says the director. 'Splendor, tremendous sets and long footage will never prove good sales points to either the exhibitor or the public in the distribution of pictures. 'A number of recent illustrations of this have been evident. The moving about of the characters of a story amidst towering sets as so many chess men is not sufficient to hold public interest. Big sets must have a reason for being in the picture aside from the belief that they offer an excuse for higher film rentals and higher admission prices. 'Many of the 'big' pictures released in recent months in nine, ten or more reels could not only have been told as effectively in six or seven reels, but better. 'Excessive footage is the enemy of the theatre owner. It is the picture's downfall as far as the public is concerned. Harold Lloyd's five- reelers will make more money than most ten-reelers. It's not the length of the production, but what's in it, that counts. There are some few stories that are best told in ten reels, but these are mighty scarce. 'A favorite remark among those identified with the production of a recent super-film (as to length and settings) was 'It has bigger sets than 'Robin Hood.'' This is a phrase that started on the lot and was carried on through the organization and to theatre owners by the salesmen of the company. The sets did look larger than those in the Fairbanks picture, but 'Robin Hood' continues a tremendous success, not because of its spectacular effects, but because the other production is a failure. 'Since my affiliation with M. C. Levee in the production of First National pictures we have enforced a definite policy of telling our stories in six or seven reels. This policy has saved us from making the mistakes that have led others into trouble. It is my belief that this policy will be general in the producing industry within the next two months.'
1923-12-01	Tennis has hit the motion picture colony with a bang. And Florence Vidor has just won the silver cup, first prize, in a tennis tournament held on Priscilla Dean's courts. The entrants for the ladies' singles in this tournament included Priscilla Dean, Enid Bennett, Katherine Bennett, May Allison, Florence Vidor and Mrs. Douglas MacLean. Among the men who made up the mixed doubles were Fred Niblo, Wheeler Oakman, Bob Ellis, Jack McDermot and Douglas MacLean. The mixed doubles were won by Florence Vidor and Wheeler Oakman, in a hard fought set against Priscilla Dean and Fred Niblo.
1924-01-01	The football season in the West has done a lot of damage to working days for certain stars. Douglas MacLean, whose father is a retired Methodist minister and much interested in the welfare of the University of Southern California, has toured all over the country following the U.S.C. team on its playing schedule. He and Mrs. MacLean drove to Washington to see them play the University of Washington and then later came down to Palo Alto for the Stanford game, and then drove clear back to San Francisco a few weeks later for the California-Stanford classic. Doug is what he himself calls a 'football nut.'
1924-01-03	(Los Angeles)--Jan. 2--Mabel Normand and Edna Purviance, movie stars, who were present when Mabel's chauffeur shot Edna's sweetheart, Courtland S. Dines, last night, will have to tell their stories to the police at least once more. ...An unvoiced, passionate love for his 'movie queen' employer and jealousy of her host is believed by the police to have caused Horace A. Greer, the driver, to shoot Dines. But Mabel herself objects strenuously to this view; 'A chauffeur with a gun!' she said tonight. 'Deliver me.' Mabel was more articulate today but not so full of pep. Her fingers trembled a little as she lit a cigarette. She had just been reading the newspapers and the police version of the affair seemed to anger her. 'Blah, blah,' said Mabel. 'Slush, the poor boob was nuts. He was only one of the servants, and he was treated like one. Why, I didn't even treat him like--well I've had a lot of good chauffeurs. And good gawd, I didn't even hire this egg. My secretary did that.' Some one asked Mabel about the gat. 'Well my gawd,' she said, 'I didn't know how he had it. He says he got it out of my room. What business had he in my room--my bedroom? Say, I hope I drop dead if this ain't the truth--that man had been in my room only twice that I know of--once to fix my curler and once to fix an electric plug. Honest. 'Somebody gave me that gat to shoot bottles with. I broke a lot of nice mountains shooting at bottles, but I had a lot of fun. And he says I was in the room when he cut loose with the gat, and he wasn't shooting at bottles, either. I wasn't in the room at all. I was in Edna's room. She was putting on her evening gown and it wasn't hooked up and I didn't want this egg to see her. 'Then all of a sudden, bang, bang, bang. I thought they were firecrackers. The kind I used to throw at Ben Turpin. Poor old Ben, he'd look at me so funny.' Mabel tried to give an imitation of Ben doing the east and west and nearly strangled on cigarette smoke....
1924-01-03	Mabel Normand and Edna Purviance, movie stars, who were present when Mabel's chauffeur shot Edna's sweetheart, Courtland S. Dines, last night, will have to tell their stories to the police at least once more. ...An unvoiced, passionate love for his 'movie queen' employer and jealousy of her host is believed by the police to have caused Horace A. Greer, the driver, to shoot Dines. But Mabel herself objects strenuously to this view; 'A chauffeur with a gun!' she said tonight. 'Deliver me.' Mabel was more articulate today but not so full of pep. Her fingers trembled a little as she lit a cigarette. She had just been reading the newspapers and the police version of the affair seemed to anger her. 'Blah, blah,' said Mabel. 'Slush, the poor boob was nuts. He was only one of the servants, and he was treated like one. Why, I didn't even treat him like--well I've had a lot of good chauffeurs. And good gawd, I didn't even hire this egg. My secretary did that.' Some one asked Mabel about the gat. 'Well my gawd,' she said, 'I didn't know how he had it. He says he got it out of my room. What business had he in my room--my bedroom? Say, I hope I drop dead if this ain't the truth--that man had been in my room only twice that I know of--once to fix my curler and once to fix an electric plug. Honest. 'Somebody gave me that gat to shoot bottles with. I broke a lot of nice mountains shooting at bottles, but I had a lot of fun. And he says I was in the room when he cut loose with the gat, and he wasn't shooting at bottles, either. I wasn't in the room at all. I was in Edna's room. She was putting on her evening gown and it wasn't hooked up and I didn't want this egg to see her. 'Then all of a sudden, bang, bang, bang. I thought they were firecrackers. The kind I used to throw at Ben Turpin. Poor old Ben, he'd look at me so funny.' Mabel tried to give an imitation of Ben doing the east and west and nearly strangled on cigarette smoke. Edna was lying in bed when the reporters came. She was dressed in a nightie and a pretty orchid kimono. Her blond hair was sadly disturbed, and her eyes were hidden by dark glasses in horn rims. She remembered some details overlooked or unrecalled last night. She was quite certain today that Mabel was with her. 'Yes, I was powdering my nose,' she said, 'and Mabel came in and said, 'Don't be a pig, Eddie, let me see Mabel in the glass and give me some of your powder.'' This coincides with Mabel's story--but it is directly opposed to Greer's. 'Mabel was sitting on the davenport,' he said, 'and she had just put her arm on mine and we were going out when Dines makes a grab for that bottle and I let him have it. Mabel screamed.' Greer said today he meant to fire only one, but he shot three bullets out of the gun before he knew it. The gun jammed on the fourth shot. 'Why,' Edna said, 'that chauffeur just came in the door and started shooting. That's all there was to it. No argument or anything so far as I know.' Edna is not going to lose her job with Charlie Chaplin because of the trouble--but Charlie plows nervous hands through his crinkly gray hair. 'The poor kid,' he says, 'she's worried stiff. She doesn't know whether she's going to be fired or not. Of course I'm not going to fire her. We all get into trouble some time. 'But whether she will have the lead in my next picture--I--uh--have a cigar. You see, we've been trying out a lot of people for that role. We've been trying to get a girl who is smaller than Edna, and --well, I don't know. 'But of course her present trouble has not a thing to do with that. You understand how types are cast? That's it. We want a certain type for the lead in my new picture.' There was talk during the interview with Charley and Edna about a little strip of film showing a man removing a splinter from Edna's beautiful knee. 'My God,' said Edna. 'But you wouldn't publish that,' said Charley. 'What would be the point?' 'No, we're not going to print that picture,' the newspaper man assured him. 'We haven't found it.' Edna explained that she was and she wasn't engaged to Dines. For about six months, she said, she and Court had an understanding, and, although he hadn't given her a betrothal ring they intended to get married. She added that she was terribly fond of the wounded man. Edna then proceeded to touch more in detail the high spots of the evening's events. 'I had promised Mr. Dines to have dinner and in the middle of the afternoon I dropped in at his bungalow. There were some others there, too. It was a sort of New Year's open house all over Hollywood and there were callers at the bungalow through the whole afternoon. 'Soon after reaching the house I went to a telephone and called Mabel and asked her to come on over. It wasn't long till she arrived. Her chauffeur, Greer, brought her over. 'Folks kept dropping in and finally, shortly before 7, Mr. Dines said he'd step into his room and dress for dinner. 'None of the three of us were intoxicated. We had some drinks, but not many. Only a moment, it seemed, after Mr. Dines started to change his clothes for dinner and just after Mabel and I were in a room leading off the living room--powdering our noses--the three shots sounded from the other room. That's the whole of it.' The police theory is that Greer was in love with Mabel, and that he wanted to pose as a hero, a caveman, in her eyes, and take her away from the man who was giving her booze. 'I wouldn't ever aspire to love such a wonderful, beautiful, great movie star,' Greer said today. 'Me, one lung, a little guy? I like her and all that, and she's been kinder to me than anybody I ever me. Gave me some platinum cuff links Christmas day. Big hearted, that's what she is--always doing something for somebody. 'Well, I told you how Miss Burns, Mabel's companion, got a call from her, asking to have me sent over to Dines' for her. And how she told me a man took Mabel from the phone and hollered that she wouldn't be home. I went over there. I knew Mabel had to have an operation, for I guess it's appendicitis. And I knew it wasn't doing her any good to get soused. But you know Mabel--she can't say no--too darn good hearted.' Edna told reporters this afternoon that Mabel hadn't called Miss Edith Burns, her housekeeper, or anybody else. 'I was with her all the time, of course, and I know she didn't use the telephone,' she insisted.
1924-01-03	[Interview with Edna Purviance following the shooting of Courtland Dines by Horace Greer] 'Mr. Dines and I were engaged--and yet we were not engaged, if you understand what I mean. 'He never gave me an engagement ring, but there was an understanding between us that we would be married. There was no date. We had not even considered any certain date for our wedding. 'We had been thus engaged, I should say, for five or six months.' Edna Purviance, in a fluffy silk garment of pink and white, leaned wearily back against the piled up cushions of her bed. Her eyes were moist. She spoke with a visible effort. 'I met him when he first came here, about a year ago. There was a dinner or dance or something; I can't remember now. We were introduced and-- and, well, I guess we rather liked each other. 'After that our friendship grew and grew. I am not ashamed to say that I am most terribly fond of him. 'We were together a great deal, of course. He was wonderful. 'About six months ago we entered into a mutual understanding which was the equivalent to an engagement to be married. 'We never considered an engagement ring necessary, but there was another reason why I did not one, and that was that we wanted to keep our engagement a secret--our secret. 'And now I suppose the world will know it.' Miss Purviance wore dark spectacles. She had apparently wept a great deal. It was yesterday mid-afternoon, but she said she had not slept since Courtland S. Dines, her fiancee, was shot down in his own apartment by Horace A. Greer. As an indication of the mutual friendship which existed between herself and Dines, Miss Purviance cited a yachting trip taken some six months ago to Catalina Island. 'It was on the yacht of a man whose name I don't want to mention unless I have to,' she said. 'I can't see why any more people should be dragged into this affair. But he was a friend of Miss Normand and for that matter, of mine. 'He has a gorgeous yacht in the Los Angeles Harbor and during the summer he arranged a little party for a cruise to Catalina. There were he and Miss Normand, Mr. Dines and I, and the members of the yacht's crew and servants. 'We had a perfectly harmless cruise. We left the harbor one morning--I think it was a Saturday, and cruised direct to Catalina. The yacht was very spacious and marvelously equipped, and we docked that afternoon at Avalon. 'The next afternoon we came back to Los Angeles. The cruise was entirely lacking in anything wrong or malicious. I understand that certain minds will draw inferences from the fact that there were just the four of us, but I will deny that there was the slightest ground for any inference of a malicious nature. 'It was simply and solely a weekend outing in which four respectable persons engaged. It was no more wrong than a hiking trip to the mountains, or a motor trip, to some place of recreation, and those are taken every day by thousands of people. 'And so we went to Catalina Island and returned and went about our respective businesses. But during this trip the deep friendship between Mr. Dines and myself was cemented more firmly. I think that is doubly true because during the whole trip he never failed to conduct himself as a perfect gentleman. 'The host had a small motion picture camera--one of those tiny pocket things. He took quite a number of pictures, and we all stood on the deck and struck attitudes--foolish, but a healthy outlet for high spirits. 'Around the studios we would call it 'clowning.' The pictures were taken when we were all in exuberant moods, and we struck all sorts of silly poses. I hope they will not be misunderstood.' As another indication of their affection, Miss Purviance mentioned that as a Christmas gift Mr. Dines sent her a jet 'vanity' of a new pattern. He also sent her a gift on her birthday. She came down at last to the Yuletide seasonal festivities which had their tragic culmination in Dines' apartment. They went out together on New Year's eve--to the Cocoanut Grove at the Ambassador. They were in a party of ten--three married couples, Dines and Miss Purviance. She declined to give the names of the guests 'because,' she said, 'I don't feel that it is necessary for them to figure in this unfortunate thing.' 'The party was not very exciting--in fact it was rather dull. This was not due to the other guests, but to the general spirit of oppression that seemed to prevail. However, it continued until 3 or 4 o'clock in the morning, when Dines, she said, took her home. He kissed her good-night and went away. 'On New Year's Day,' she said, 'everybody was having 'open house,' as is the custom in Hollywood. We had made an engagement to meet for dinner that day. About 3 o'clock I went over to this apartment, and other people were there. In fact, his friends kept dropping in off and on all afternoon.' As in the other instance, she declined to give names. 'As soon as I got in the house,' she said, 'I phoned Mabel--Mabel Normand, and asked her to come over. She said she would be there right away. In about half an hour, I should judge, she arrived. I think the time was between 3:30 and 4 o'clock. 'The chauffeur, Kelly, drove her over. I heard her tell him she would call him when she wanted him to return. He went away. 'We sat around and entertained the people who called, and talked till about 7 o'clock. Mr. Dines had just mentioned that he would have to go dress for dinner. He was wearing a soft suit of some kind. 'It would be foolish to say that there was nothing to drink during the afternoon, of course there was. But there was not a great deal to drink, and none of us drank very much. I know that Mabel was not intoxicated, and neither was I, and neither was Mr. Dines. 'When he said he must dress for dinner, I stepped into the room just off the living room and took out my powder puff and started to powder my nose. Mabel stepped in just behind me. ''Don't be selfish,' she said, 'let me use it too.' 'And at that instant, without a preliminary warning of any kind, there were three sharp shots from the other room! 'Mabel and I ran out immediately. There was no one in sight but Mr. Dines. The front door was closed. We had not heard it open nor close, nor any peal of the bell, nor any rap at the door. 'Mr. Dines was standing there, smiling in a sort of funny way. ''Well,' he said, 'I got plugged.' 'He continued to stand there with his hand over his white shirt front smiling. Then all at once, as I watched the fingers over his breast, I saw the blood begin to seep through. I am not sure what I did then, nor what Mabel did, nor what was said, if anything. 'Mr. Dines began to totter, but he never stopped smiling. I think we ran to his side, Mabel on one side and I on the other, and led him to the bedroom. He was getting weak. We laid him on the bed and tore off most of his clothing. We put on his dressing gown, or bathrobe, or whatever it was, that we found in the closet. 'I am not sure what we did next. I know we tried to stop the bleeding, but it would not stop. Almost at once, it seems to me know, the ambulance and the police were there. 'I never saw Kelly, or Greer, or whatever his name is, from the time he first brought Miss Normand to the house until the time he was brought into the room with us at the police station.'
1924-02-01	Mabel Normand is another charmer of child-naturalness who is instantly ensnaring to men. She is an unbelievable combination of gamin and angel. And, curiously, the demon never seems to affect the deity in the least. She is the angel child of the song: When she is good she is very, very good, and when she is bad she is very good company. I attended a dinner party which Mabel graced. Among the guests was an icy dowager who simply refused to melt. Suddenly Mabel looked across at her and cried, 'I'll bite you, baby!' The dowager collapsed. I don't believe there ever was created a more sincere, unselfish mortal than Mabel Normand. She is that exhalted type of feminine charmer who can give a man friendship in lieu of love and still make him feel a triumphant Lothario.
1924-02-02	--Mabel Normand and Edna Purviance, moving picture stars, full of New Year's cheer and saturated with tears, were taken into custody late tonight after Mabel's chauffeur had sent a bullet into the breast of Courtland F. Dines, an oil operator from Denver, who is a friend of Miss Purviance. Dines, according to first reports, was fatally hurt. Later reports are more optimistic. One is that neither lung was pierced. After the two moving picture actresses had been questioned by the police and released they saw to it that Dines was properly cared for in the Good Samaritan hospital. The chauffeur who fired the shot is H. A. Kelly, alias Greer. The first word of the shooting came to the police from Kelly himself. He arrived at the university police station and said: 'I have just shot a man over at 325 North Vermont Avenue.' The police hurried over to the bungalow at that address. They found the women weeping over Dines who was reclining on a sofa. 'I guess somebody shot him, Mister,' said Mabel--with the right amount of cheer in her voice. Later Kelly, the chauffeur, was booked on a charge of assault with a deadly weapon with intent to kill and the women were released and allowed to go home. The place where the shooting occurred, which had been rented by Dines on his arrival from Denver six weeks ago, is a unit in a beautiful series of court bungalows. Edna, who is said to be his fiancee, had been there much of this afternoon. There had been obviously an abundance of drinkables. Miss Normand says she went to the apartment at 8 o'clock p.m. in her limousine and told her chauffeur she would call him when she wanted him. 'He came in about 9 o'clock or some time,' Mabel said in the police station, 'without being called. Honest, nobody invited my chauffeur to the party. Why the--well, why should we? 'And all of a sudden there's some shots. And poor Dines is hit. 'Honest I never saw the shooting. I didn't know nothing about it. I was in the other room, putting some powder on my nose, or maybe smoking a cigarette or something. And Edna was with me--see?' Edna's story was much the same; but rather vague and indefinite. It was plain though that she was doing her best to recollect. But she had forgotten much. She had even forgotten to button her shoes, until she saw a burly cop grinning at her ankles. Then Mabel's chauffeur, whom she knows as Greer, told his story. He said he wanted to protect Miss Normand. 'This guy Dines has got a lot of booze,' he explained to the interested police and newspaper men. 'And he's been keeping poor Mabel so bleary-eyed that she can't do anything. I felt sorry for the kid, and I determined to put a stop to it. 'So this afternoon I went up to Mabel's room. And up in Mabel's room I found this little gat. 'Well, about 8:30 o'clock I takes Mabel over to this Dines' place--on the way to the depot. She was going to see some friends off to the east, Mabel's great like that. Do anything to cheer a friend. She had some flowers--she's always giving flowers to everybody. And she though she'd just step in and say 'hello' and 'happy New Year's.' 'I waited an hour for her to come out. And she didn't come. So I went into the place. 'I saw that Mabel was in no condition to stay there any longer and that Miss Purviance was--well, anyway, I said, 'Come on, Mabel, we're going away from here.' 'She told me I was a kill-joy and that I wasn't a gentleman if I insisted on going around killing her parties. 'I got rough with her--like any man would. And I told her if she didn't come and come right away I'd chuck up the job. I wasn't going to 'chauf,' her around if she insisted on getting drunk every time she could. 'Well, she got up and put her arm on mine and we started out. 'Then this guy Dines started to pick up a bottle. I thought he was going to hit me with it. I'm no roughneck; I'm no cave man. Look me over-- you don't see no ladies' delight about me. Little guy, I am. And him--well, you seen him, didn't you? 'I wasn't going to let him crack me over the dome with no bottle--no matter if it was a real Haig & Haig bottle. And I pulled the gat and let him have it.' Greer fired three shots, and then ran out to the police station and told the police he had 'just shot a guy.' It was really an affecting meeting, that of the movie stars and the oil man, in the ward of the shabby little receiving hospital. It was approximately two hours after the shooting and the girls, having finished with the police quiz, had become almost cold sober. They were led from the detective bureau by a crowd of admiring cops. Edna, dressed in a cloth of gold evening gown, gold satin slippers and gold silk stockings, with a wrap of gold and green; and Mabel, a Gainsborough picture in black velvet--and plenty of ostrich feathers on her hat. 'Gimmie a cigarette,' begged Mabel just before the procession to the receiving hospital began. 'O, daddy,' was Edna's greeting to Dines in the hospital. She took the wounded man's hand in hers and kissed it. The light shone on a big diamond--Edna's. 'Is my sweetie hurt?' she asked of Dines. The tears began to fall in great splotches from the blond lady's eyes. 'No--I'll be all right,' said Dines. ''Lo, Sweety,' said Mabel, with just that exact note of cheer needed for the sick room. 'Hoy's the sweety?' Edna shoved up the gold bandeau--it threatened to drop over her eyes, and bent and kissed Dines. 'What do you think of that guy saying I tried to hit him with a bottle--' Dines moaned. 'Get me a drink of water.' 'All my fault,' said Mabel, still the cheerfullest soul in the room. 'Say, he told everybody I saw the shooting. Huh--and if he says it again I'll take a couple shots at him.' Mabel pushed Edna out of the way and repeated that it was all her fault and that she ought to take a couple of shots at somebody...
1924-02-17	Writing the story of one's life is a perfectly awful thing. I don't like that way of phrasing it, anyhow. It sounds like I was Methuselah's daughter or some one who had been around this little old world so long that I was about to give the universe the benefit of my vast span of years. And I've just begun to live. So let's call it 'a few chapters from my life,' and if it will be of interest, I shall be glad. Doubtless there are lessons and morals to be drawn from the lives of all of us. If there is one in mine, I hope it will be of service, not only to you but to me. But I guess we all find it a whole lot easier to point a moral from the errors of some one else, than to profit by our own mistakes. The Examiner has asked me, before I begin my own story to answer two questions. And they are: 1--Would I advise a young girl to seek a career in motion pictures? 2--And to one who is seeking a career, what is the best road to success? There it is again, the advice from grandma! Like most professional persons who have passed 18 years (actual), I am a perfect clam about my age. If you have any idea that I am going to step right out here, in print, with a chatty discussion about the year I was born, you may as well turn the page. I prefer to leave such uninteresting details to my girl friends. But I'm going to try to answer the questions. And to the first one, my answer is 'Yes.' I respectfully decline to make the stereotyped reply that this question often elicits from actors and actresses. 'No, no, my deah, you mustn't think of such a thing. The hardships we professional people have to undergo, the tremendous amount of talent necessary for success, you've no ideah.' And all this with unutterable lifting of the eyebrows and an air of boredom and disillusionment with all things theatrical. I think it's a wonderful life. It's hard work, of course, just as it requires hard work to succeed in any other career we may choose. And perhaps it's overcrowded, as they say. But there's always room at the top, according to a good old axiom of the stage. And if you have confidence in yourself, if you think you have talent for motion picture work, then I certainly would not be one to discourage you. You must be prepared for many disappointments and for progress that seems tremendously slow. Perhaps you won't succeed at all. In fact, you probably won't. But you'll have tried. And that's something. I'd rather have a try at what I feel I can do and what I want to do, even if I fail, than to drudge along at something that doesn't interest me, simply because I'm doubtful if I have the courage to stand adversity. If you think you have talent for the work, go to it, my child (grandma speaking again). You'll find a lot of people to give you a helping hand over the rough spots. Some of the very finest men and women I've ever met are motion picture actors and actresses. I'd like to stack up their lives, with the good deeds I happen to know they have done, against the lives of some others who are inclined, perhaps, to gaze down upon them from a self-erected eminence. And to the second question, 'What is the road to success?' there is only one answer--work. Work and study, until you have learned the technique of the screen. Contrary to popular opinion, it can't be acquired in a day. And it can't be acquired by running for the dressing room the minute your 'bit' is finished. Those whom I have seen climb from mediocrity to stardom have made it a practice to watch their fellow workers, to pick up a mannerism here and a little trick there, to think about them at home and to figure out what made them impressive. That's the way to learn. And to learn is to be successful. There is no other way in my opinion. You have heard a great deal of talk doubtless, about favoritism and luck being big factors in screen success. Miss Soandso, they tell you, is a star because she happened to be in a picture that was an unexpected hit or because the producer favors her more than other actresses. Don't you believe it. It's the public that makes the stars, in motion pictures. And if the dear old public doesn't like them, they don't become stars, permanently. There may be an element of luck, or of favoritism, in getting a chance to show what one can do. But you must be ready for your chance. You must be prepared, by hard work, to accept the opportunity and ride it to success. Luck or favoritism may be able to make a star, but they can't keep her one. It's the public that does that. I hope I have answered the questions. I've done the best I know how. And, after all, answers to questions like those are matters of personal opinion. So, with those few words, I will plunge into my own story, the telling of which will be much easier than trying to hand forth a lot of 'highbrow' advice. Up to the time I left school there was nothing eventful or particularly interesting in my life. My mother lived on Staten Island and I attended school, the last few years, at North Westport, Mass., near Martha's Vineyard. Once a month I went home, in charge of a stewardess on the Fall River Line, but I stayed at school, during the summer, studying hard and trying to skip a class and get ahead faster. I was tremendously ambitious in those days. We had very little money and even my occasional trips home were a great expense. I wanted to finish as soon as I could, so I could learn more about the things that particularly interested me. I was crazy about music and drawing. I wanted to be a big musician. And I've never really lost that desire. Even up to last year I used to practice six or seven hours a day at the piano, when I could possibly get the time to do so. But I didn't get ahead as fast as either my mother or myself hoped I would. Lack of money for proper instruction handicapped me, and when a friend of ours, who was also a friend of Hamilton King, the artist, suggested that I could earn money posing for him, mother finally agreed. I stopped school at Martha's Vineyard, came home to Staten Island and went to work for Mr. King, continuing my studies in drawing and music at night. This was when I was 14 years old. I became a member of the Art Students' League, where it is possible to get competent instruction at night at a nominal cost, and I spent all day posing, at first for Mr. King and then for other artists and illustrators. Most of the work I did was to pose for heads for magazine covers. And I didn't like it. I hated to stand still. I hated to be simply a means by which someone else was creating something. I wanted to do it myself, but I couldn't I had only the longing, without the ability. I received $1.50 in the morning and the same amount in the afternoon for posing. Thirty cents of that went for carfare and ferry fare and I had to spend a little money for lunch. Sometimes, however, I didn't get any lunch. I used my lunch hour instead to pose for a commercial photographer. Wearing a hat or a dress that he wanted to photograph, we models would stand around in front of the camera during the noon hour and he would sell the pictures to trade journals. It was there that I met Alice Joyce and Anna Q. Nilsson, who were taking the same means of earning a little extra money. Neither of them, at that time, had been in motion pictures. And so I kept on with the artists and they said I was a good model, easy to draw and adaptable to the costumes in which they portrayed their magazine-cover heroines. Among the artists and illustrators for whom I posed during the next few months, in addition to Mr. King, were James Montgomery Flagg, Charles Dana Gibson, C. Coles Phillips, Henry Hutt, Orson Lowell, J. C. and F. X. Lydendecker, Alonzo Kimball, Haskell Coffin and Penrhyn Stanlaws. Gradually I acquired a vogue among artists as being a type that lent itself readily to diversified costuming. I found myself more in demand and finally was engaged, permanently, by two of the most prominent, Gibson and Flagg. I posed for Mr. Gibson every morning at his studio in Carnegie Hall and for Mr. Flagg in the afternoon at his Sixty-seventh street studio. The arrangement was more satisfactory because I knew exactly what I had to do every day, but it didn't increase my wages. I was still getting $3.00 per day, $1.50 from each artist. I thought it was a lot, however. And it helped. I was able to pay more for my music lessons and thus get better teachers. And I was happy in the opportunities that were afforded me to watch these masters as they worked. When I became tired they permitted me, sometimes, to stand behind them and watch their brush as they retouched and filled in face and figure. It was something I couldn't have bought and I realized its value. There were periods of unhappiness, however. As I look back at them now I believe they came from the ambitions that always were tormenting me. Mr. Gibson had a number of evening gowns that he used as costumes for his models. They had been given to him by society women of his acquaintance for that purpose and every time I put on one of them it took the place, for me, of Aladdin's lamp. They were very smart, these gowns, made in Paris, most of them, and I used to imagine myself the original owner, trailing these wonderful creations through gorgeous reception rooms and across the floors of littering ballrooms. I wondered what it would be like to have a wardrobe that would permit giving away clothes like those I was wearing and I used to visualize the parties at which they had been worn, giving myself all the airs and graces that I felt I would have put on and smiling condescendingly at multitudes of suitors in evening clothes with ribbons across their shirt fronts. Very distinguished were all the men of my dream parties, with iron gray hair and manners that included bowing from the waist and much courtly kissing of the hand. Those days and those dreams left an ineffaceable impression on me. Of late years, since fortune has been more kind, I have been able, occasionally, to give away a dress or a hat. And every time I do it, I get a thrill. The image of me as I was at 14 pops up before my eyes and I realize that no Paris gown, no wonderful hat can ever mean as much to me as did those cast-off things in which I used to flaunt myself before the mirror at Mr. Gibson's studio. Some day someone is going to portray, on paper or on the stage or screen, the nebulous dreams and longings that come to an adolescent girl, poised with diffident foot on the threshold of a broader life. If it is ever done truly it will be a wonderful masterpiece. But it will require, in the doing, a very great artist. All this happened before I ever thought of motion pictures. I used to go to see them, with mother, and I was an ardent 'fan,' even then. I had my favorites on the screen and D. W. Griffith was my favorite director. In the next installment of this story I want to tell about my first venture in pictures as an extra girl, with the Kalem Company, and of how I first met Mr. Griffith, whose pupil I became and for whose ability and artistry I shall always hold a very great reverence.
1924-02-20	Belle Bennett, leading woman, Balboa Feature Films Co., after an operation for appendicitis, has left the hospital where she has been confined in Los Angeles.
1924-02-24	You never know your luck! This isn't a very original statement. Something seems to tell me it has been said before, but it illustrates, almost exactly, how I tried to turn my back on what was waiting for me. Three times I tried my foolish best to walk away from motion pictures, and all three times chance intervened and set my feet back on the path illuminated by the Klieg lights. It happened like this: Last week I wrote of the days when I was posing at the studios of Mr. Gibson and Mr. Flagg, and augmenting my slender wages by parading during the noon hour before a fashion camera. It was there that I met Alice Joyce, and it was to her that I owed my first chance in motion pictures. I met her on the street one day, and mentioned that she had not been at the commercial photographer's for some time. 'No, I'm in moving pictures now,' she said. 'I'm leading lady for the Kalem Company. We're working tonight. Why don't you come up and see how motion pictures are made? It's very interesting.' I was on my way to Mr. Flagg's studio, but I went with Alice to a drug store and phoned my mother, telling her of Alice's invitation. Mother always has adored Alice Joyce, and she told me to go ahead. So after I finished posing I went to the address Alice had given me, and the first surprise I got was to find that the studio was in an office building. I've forgotten exactly where the Kalem Company was located then, but I think it was either Thirty-third or Forty-second street, and I remember it was in a great, big office building. They were taking a scene when I went in. I asked for Miss Joyce, but she was acting before the camera. George Melford, who is now with Lasky, was directing, and I was intensely interested in all I saw as I stood there waiting for Alice to finish. I didn't stay very long because I wanted to get to the Staten Island ferry before it got too late, but while I was talking to Alice the assistant director was issuing a call for 'extras' to work the next day on location. Seeing me talking to Miss Joyce he came over and asked me if I would like to work. It happened that I was to have a few days' vacation from posing, and I told him I would like to try it. I was directed to be there at 8 o'clock the next morning to start for Fort Lee, New Jersey. I worked three days in that picture, and I never shall forget it. It was a Puritan picture, and was taken in the dead of winter. They gave us little thin gray dresses to wear and I almost froze to death. The Puritans must have had a terrible time. I gathered that their entire existence was spent in running away from Indians. We ran downhill, and then they would turn us around and have us run uphill. And all the time with a gang of large, whooping Indians in close pursuit. 'Run,' yelled the director, and we ran. 'Stop,' and we stopped. At first it was all very interesting, and I was filled with shivering enthusiasm. But after a while all the enthusiasm froze up and I concluded that motion pictures would be a wonderful career for an Eskimo lady, but wasn't quite suited for me. I stuck it out for three days, but finally had to admit defeat at the hands of the thermometer. I was supposed to go back to work, anyhow, at that time with Mr. Gibson and Mr. Flagg, so I dropped the motion pictures and I didn't care if I never saw an Indian again. Every time I passed a cigar store I shivered. And there it might have ended; my 'cuh-ree-hr,' as the press agents call it. I might have come to naught, alackaday, but for chance or Fate, or whatever it is that intervenes and shapes our destinies. While I was scuffling around in the snow and trying to keep one jump ahead of Mr. Pontiac and all his relatives I had met Frank Lanning, a very famous actor of Indian characters. We had stood around between pursuits and talked of motion pictures and posing, and how different they were, to which I agreed with chattering teeth. And the next time I met Mr. Lanning it was at what might be called a psychological moment. I had gone back to posing. I hadn't seen Alice Joyce for four months, and I had no idea of ever again attempting to work in motion pictures. But one morning Mr. Gibson told me he would be busy for some time in litigation that had arisen over a contract. He said he would pay me during the time I was loafing, but suggested that I try to get work with some other artist while I was waiting for him to be free to draw again. It was just after this conversation and while I was debating what artist to ask for work that I met Frank Lanning on the street. He said he had noticed several things Mr. Gibson had drawn and had recognized me as the model. There was one head in particular that he seemed to admire and he told me that when he saw it on a magazine cover he had made up his mind to hunt me up some time and advise me to make another try at motion pictures. 'I am working for D. W. Griffith,' he said, 'and I'm on my way there now. Why don't you come along and let me introduce you to the casting director?' If Mr. Gibson had not suspended work that day, I probably would have told Mr. Lanning that it was very nice of him to suggest it, but that I thought I'd better stick to posing. You see, I still had ambition to become an artist some day. But I went. He took me to the old Biograph studio, on Fourteenth street--the studio that made screen history. When we entered they were taking a scene and Mr. Lanning found he had only a few minutes to make up. So he hurried away, leaving me standing there. The first thing I noticed was how green every one looked. In complexion, I mean. They must have had different lights at the Kalem company because I hadn't noticed it when I watched Alice, that night. I didn't think of the lights. I guess I thought it was part make-up and part natural complexion. And the next thing that caught my eye was a gorgeous creature who was working before the camera. It was Florence Lawrence. She had on a wonderful gown and her golden hair was almost sweeping the floor. With the peculiar tint cast on her face by the lights she was very beautiful. I didn't know anything about wigs, then, and I thought it was her own hair. I stood there watching her, and I shrank back in a corner, with an awed, 'Gosh.' She looked like all seven of the Sutherland sisters, and I said to myself, as I watched her: 'You don't belong here, Mabel. You haven't hair like that. Your eyes are only about half as big as hers are and your lips aren't as full and red as hers. You won't have a chance of making good alongside anyone like that. You'd better stick to posing.' So I began to edge toward the door. I watched Miss Lawrence and Henry Walthall for a few minutes longer. I saw a man directing then whom I presumed to be Mr. Griffith. I noticed that Mr. Lanning was busy. And I 'ducked.' For the second time I was running away from fame and fortune, as the story books call it. But I didn't get far. I was half-way down the stairs when a voice hailed me from the top. 'Just a minute, please,' it said. And the owner of the voice descended. It was Wilfred Lucas, famous Broadway star, who was Mr. Griffith's right hand man. I had heard of him, but I had never seen him before. 'Would you mind waiting a moment,' he said. 'Mr. Griffith noticed you standing there and he would like to speak to you. Can you come back for a minute?' So I climbed the stairs again, Mr. Lucas leading the way. And I have thought of those stairs often as epitomizing my life. I was going to D. W. Griffith. I was climbing. And I've tried, ever since, to keep on climbing. But the unkind knocks that Fate has dealt me have so depressed me mentally, at times, that I feel again as if I were, in spirit, descending those stairs, going away from Griffith, going away from everything that I prize in life, and waiting for the helping hand, the friendly encouragement that would buoy me up, turn me around and start me climbing again. When we reached the studio Mr. Griffith was still busy, so we stood there and I told Mr. Lucas why I had become discouraged and started away. I pointed out Miss Lawrence's hair and eyes and told him I was afraid I didn't have the right complexion. 'My hair doesn't come down to my feet,' I said, and he chuckled. But he didn't undeceive me. He left me to find out all those things for myself. I knew I had pulled a faux pas of some kind, however, and I was extremely uncomfortable. Mr. Lucas had the carriage of the successful actor. It awed me and while he was very kind he couldn't put me at my ease. Many time since then we have laughed at our first meeting. Whenever we see each other nowadays I call him 'The Great Lucas,' and he grins reminiscently. For twenty-five minutes we stood there until Mr. Griffith finished and went to his desk in a corner of the studio. Then Mr. Lucas led me over. I shall never forget Mr. Griffith. Already he was one of the most important men in motion pictures, but he was as kind and simple in his talk with me as a man could possibly be. His voice charmed me, particularly. It had a timbre and a gentleness that encouraged me. He asked me my name and if I had had any experience in motion picture work. 'No, sir,' I answered. 'Then how did you happen to come here today?' he said. So I told him that I had been posing for Mr. Gibson and Mr. Flagg, that I had met Alice Joyce and had fled from great gobs of Indians during three days with the Kalem company. That was where I had met Mr. Lanning, I told him, and that was how I happened to come to the Biograph studio. He asked me if I would like to work with his company. I had noticed as I watched them all before the camera, how like a happy family they seemed. Every one was friendly with every one else, they all seemed to admire and respect Mr. Griffith, and I thought it would be nice to be with them. And, besides, Mr. Griffith could make any one ambitious. He was so kind-hearted that I believe if he were talking with someone who was absolutely impossible as an actress, he would make her feel that if she worked real hard, she would make good. So I told him I would like to try it. I don't believe they took 'tests in those days. Or maybe they didn't want to waste any film on an 'extra.' Anyhow they didn't turn the camera on me but just told me to go downstairs and get dressed and made-up. This was early in the afternoon and I phoned Mr. Flagg that I couldn't come to pose for him that day and I started right in to work under Mr. Griffith. And the first thing I discovered was that my dress would consist of doublet and tights. It was a costume picture and I was to be one of six pages, in a court scene. Mrs. Ada Ebling, the wardrobe woman, helped me into the costume. It was the first time I had ever worn tights and I was scared stiff and embarrassed almost to the point of tears. I guess she took pity on me because she gave me a long cloak, before she sent me upstairs. She told me to keep the cloak around me until it came time for me to go before the camera. But I'm afraid this installment is getting to long. I guess this is a good place to stop. Next week I'll tell you how I got through my first real picture and how for the third time I abandoned the work, went back to posing and tried to run away from what life was holding out to me.
1924-03-01	Mr. and Mrs. Fred Niblo entertained with an informal dancing party on New Year's Eve and later the guests went to the big house-warming given by Tom and Nell Ince. Among the crowd that gathered to see the New Year in at the new Ince home were Florence Vidor, Mrs. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean, Wheeler Oakman and Priscilla Dean, and Bob Ellis and May Ellison.
1924-03-02	Please stand out there and stop hiding.' This was the first individual direction I received in motion pictures. It was hurled at me by an assistant director for D. W. Griffith and it was the final touch necessary to complete one of the most thorough cases of camera fright in my experience. As I told you last week, I had been engaged by Mr. Griffith as an extra in a costume picture. I was supposed to be a page and the costume consisted of doublet and tights. Wrapped in a cloak that had been lent me by the kind- hearted wardrobe woman, I had waited for some time the call for the pages to take their places. Then I dropped the cloak and stepped out to spend a very miserable hour. There were six of us pages. We were to make a frame for the entrance of the leading actors, and then follow them out. I was supposed to stand near a post. But I stood behind it. Anything to get behind something. I thought everyone was looking at me. As a matter of fact, no one was paying the slightest attention to me, but I felt certain I was the focus of all eyes. Instead of feeling like one page, I felt like a whole book, with every leaf fluttering. And it was because I persisted in trying to slip behind this post and in standing on one foot like a bashful pelican that the exasperated assistant director felt constrained to utter harsh words. But I got used to it after a while and when we were told that we were to work that night and receive a 'double check' I was glad. It meant $10 instead of the usual five-dollar bill. I didn't think about my mother worrying. But when I got home to Staten Island at 2 o'clock in the morning I thought about it, with emphasis. I got a scolding that made me realize how I had worried her. And it put an end to motion picture work, for me, for a considerable time. Without bothering to telephone the Biograph studio that I was not coming back, I just quit, and went back to posing for Mr. Flagg, Mr. Gibson and several other artists. I never expected to face a movie camera again. But Fate must have decided otherwise. It was three months later that I met, in the Forty-second street subway station, Henry Walthall, Mack Sennett and Del Henderson. They had been working for Mr. Griffith the day I had page-fright, and I had been introduced to them. All three of them, when they encountered me in the subway station, put their hands on their hips and just stood still and looked at me. Finally Mr. Sennett said: 'Where in the world do you live, young lady? We telephoned all over Brooklyn and Staten Island trying to locate you. Didn't you know that those pages were supposed to be in three or four scenes, that they came close to the camera and that because you didn't come back we had to re-take all that day's work that showed you in the page's costume?' 'I hope Mr. Griffith wasn't annoyed,' I said. 'I fear he was annoyed, just a trifle annoyed,' said Mr. Sennett, grinning at the others. 'But why didn't you come back?' And so I told them about how late I got home and how mother didn't like the hours and concluded I had better stick to posing. We stood there quite a while talking. And they bought me a malted milk shake, with an egg in it. I remember that because I had been contemplating such a purchase myself, but I couldn't afford the egg. Anyhow, the upshot of the conversation was that they enthused me all over again with motion picture work. They said they would explain it to Mr. Griffith and told me to ask my mother if I couldn't come back to the studio. I did and she consented finally. I went back to see Mr. Griffith and he didn't even mention the late unpleasantness, but gave me a job working as an extra girl at $25 per week. Mother had made up her mind, I guess, that I was slated for motion picture work. This was the third time I had tried to turn away from it and each time I had been brought back through an accident. So she gave in and accepted the inevitable. And thus began my happiest days in pictures. Those old Biograph days! Will they ever be equaled, I wonder, for their effect on the industry and for the atmosphere that surrounded that little group? I doubt it. Every once in a while, nowadays, I meet a member of the old company. And we talk about something that happened then. And we sigh. 'The old days,' we say, in unison. 'What wonderful times we had. What a lot we learned and how happy we were while we were learning. If those days could only come back!' To one who was not a member of that company, it is difficult to portray just what made it great and just what gave those days their thrill. In a sense, we were pioneers and for that reason perhaps many of the unpleasant things one meets in studios nowadays were lacking. We were all friends and equals. There was no 'up-stage' demeanor. No one ever thought of himself as out-ranking someone else in the company. We didn't realize we were making movie history and that we were destined to be the stars of today. Yet almost every member of that Biograph Company, the 'White Company' of the industry, has a name with which to conjure today. And the reason, I believe, lies in the invaluable training we received at the hands of Mr. Griffith. With the exception of Mary Pickford, we were shifted around, from lead to extra, and back again to lead, so that we became capable of meeting any situation, playing any part. Mary was the star. At that time she was called the 'Biograph Blonde.' Perhaps you remember that title. And she was wonderful to all of us. I have never seen in any studio a person so universally beloved as was Mary. But she was the only star. All the rest of us girls, and most of the men, climbed the heights one week and played a leading part, only to be cast for a very tenuous bit of atmosphere, the next week. It was wonderful training. It prevented us from getting 'swelled heads.' And Griffith, in his wisdom, played upon it, in the kindliest way. The projection room was on the top floor and when a picture was being run in which one of us had played a leading role, Griffith would come to the head of the stairs and shout, 'Come up and look at a great artist.' And up we would troop. Perhaps it was I that was the artist. Perhaps it was Blanche Sweet or Priscilla Dean or Florence LaBadie or Jeanie MacPherson. But we'd all go up anyway, and watch the picture. And Mr. Griffith would comment on it, showing where it was good and where the technique of the 'great artist' was a bit faulty. And if we were inclined to get a bit chesty, someone would say, 'Watch the old cranium and don't let it enlarge, my dear. Remember I was a great artist two weeks ago.' It was that training that has enabled that little company to hold its own, ever since, with the stars that have risen and set in the movie firmament. Great artists of the spoken stage have come in, new personalities have been discovered, but no one ever has been able to down the old Biograph company. They wouldn't stay down. They knew too much about the technique of motion picture acting. They knew what to do with their hands and feet, how to stand and sit and walk. They were, and they are, actors, trained in a school that began with the A, B, Cs, and extended into the higher reaches of technique, with frequent trips back to the primer class. Consider for a moment the people that worked with Mr. Griffith during the two years I was his pupil. I believe I can remember most of them. Some of them are no longer living but the majority, if not retired, are still among the vivid personalities of the screen. Among the women were Mary Pickford; Dorothy and Lillian Gish; Jeanie MacPherson, who is a famous scenarist; the late Florence LaBadie, a beautiful and talented actress who would have gone far but for the unfortunate accident that cut short her career; Blanche Sweet; Lottie Pickford; Bess Meredyth, another famous scenarist; Florence Lawrence; Claire MacDowell, Linda Griffith and Grace Henderson. Among the men is an even greater percentage of famous names, such as: Bobbie Harron, Wilfred Lucas, Edwin August, Henry Walthall, Mack Sennett, Edward and Jack Dillon, Del Henderson, Pathe Lehrman, the late Joseph Grabell, James Kirkwood, Owen Moore, Frank Evans, Alfred Paget, Charles West, Frank Powell, Harry Hyde, Jack Pickford, Harry Carey, Christy Cabanne, Charles Mayo and George Nichols. John Waldron, who is now studio manager for Mack Sennett, was studio business manager for Griffith and the payroll, in 'them stirring days' was somewhat different from now. Imagine what it would cost to maintain a company, nowadays, composed of the people I have just mentioned! My first parts were all in tragedies. Mr. Griffith never could see me as a comedienne. I was always playing dying mothers or something. I certainly did get sick of dying and my fondest wish was that I might play a role in which I went on to the end of the picture without becoming a casualty. During most of my first two years I never had a chance at comedy. But it was great training and I learned, from the heavier parts, many things that have been of inestimable value in comedy roles. And so we continued, one day up and the next down again to extra, with no one but Mary Pickford sure of having a good part. It taught us never to lose our heads, to be kind to those less fortunate than ourselves. And our association with Mr. Griffith showed us what loyalty meant. When the big money began to be apparent in pictures and the influx of stage stars began, Griffith stuck with us. We were his pupils, his children, his 'gang,' and he always believed in us and in our destinies. I remember one picture in which I played shortly after I joined the company. The name of it has vanished from my recollection, but it was heavy, oh, very heavy, and I played a vampire part, with Bobby Harron and Grace Henderson. They dressed me all up for a 'vamp' and they gave me a huge black velvet hat. Oh, how I loved that hat. It was a great, big one. It seemed to me it was yards wide. I never expected to have one like it, of my own, and I used to almost cry when I had to take that lovely hat off at night. My chance in comedy really came as an accident. There was nothing for me to do, one week, and Mr. Griffith sent me down to Huntington, L. I., where the Biograph comedy unit was making a funny picture. Frank Powell was directing it. But when I got there I found there was nothing much for me to do in the comedy, either, so I went swimming, off the pier. In those days, you know, comedies were born, not made. By that I mean that there was no script. They made them up as they went along. And as I was diving and swimming around, it occurred to Mr. Powell that it would make a good scene for the comedy if one of the characters watched me through a pair of binoculars. So they 'shot' him as he peered through the glasses and then they came down to the pier and turned the camera on me for a dive or two. And that, I believe, was the origin of the bathing girl idea in comedies. It happened to be my one and only appearance as a bathing girl but it was the genesis of many miles of film, born of the idea that occurred to Mr. Powell that afternoon. Doubtless it would have come eventually, anyhow, but that picture was the forerunner of them all, as nearly as I can remember. I had been told to do a few comedy stunts while the camera was focused on me and they appeared to like me in the role. So they asked Mr. Griffith, in the next picture, if they could borrow me again. At first he demurred. In his opinion, I was a total loss as a comedienne, and besides, he had a part for me in another picture. I've forgotten what it was now, but I suppose I would have been completely extinct, as usual, before the end of the last reel. I wasn't so crazy about comedy, either. I had an ambition to become a g-r-r-reat tragedienne. I suppose I thought I was destined to become a second Duse. But Griffith finally yielded. I was loaned to the comedy company for a second picture and I've been an alleged comedienne ever since. What I didn't know about comedy then would have filled the Congressional Library. Tears had been my role. I could cry like a 40,000 barrel gusher, and at a minute's notice. But I couldn't smile. I had been a patient and beautiful corpse too often. So when they told me to smile I would grin, momentarily, and then let my face slip back into my very best funereal expression. It was awful. They told me to hold the smile and I would assume a 'smile or bust' expression that had about as much mirth in it as Lucrezia Borgia's company manners. My idea of smiling was to let the smile freeze, with the result that I resembled a Cheshire cat during many hundred feet of film. I was furious. I thought it was terrible of Mr. Griffith to farm me out to the comedy company. Gone were all my dreams of tragedy, of stalking across the set, with the spectators sighing and shuddering at my art. But again I didn't know my luck. Opportunity was knocking and I was totally deaf to her insistence. Next week I want to tell you how I became a determined and unrepentant comedienne, how I left the Biograph and went to work for another company at a salary that I thought was affluence itself. The break-up of the Biograph had commenced, and we were scattered, gradually, all over filmdom, leaving the home nest with much regret and taking with us memories that never have been effaced.
1924-03-07	Twelve letters said to have been the basis of a blackmail plot against John L. Bushnell, Springfield (O.) banker and son of former Gov. Bushnell of that State, were seized yesterday by agents of the Department of Justice in a room at 744 South Bonnie Brae, according to Agent O. E. Meehan. The seizure followed the arrest of Lawrence McClean by city police as a burglar suspect, and his asserted confession, to the surprise of the Federal agents, that he was a member of the blackmail gang. He had not been suspected, it was said. The confession, according to Meehan, involved R. G. Sheridan, alias Blackie Madison, recently arrested in Los Angeles and now on his way to Cincinnati for trial, and others now under indictment in the United States District Court at Cincinnati. By means of the letters, Meehan said, the gang extorted $10,000 from the Ohio banker and made attempts to obtain $100,000 and then $30,000 more. Bushnell had been tricked into paying $10,000 for a package of blank paper, the agent said, and instead of meeting further demands sought the indictment of the gang. The letters are asserted to have been written by Bushnell to Rose Cooley, alias Rose Putman, who formerly lived at 2775 Beechwood Avenue with her uncle, Dan Osborne, alias H. L. Putman. The woman and Herbert I. Ross were convicted recently at Cincinnati, Meehan said, and are serving sentences at Atlanta penitentiary. A sixth member of the asserted gang is being sought by the Federal agents. McClean is said to have told Agent Meehan he had been worried by the arrest of Sheridan and decided to make a clean breast of all he knew. He will be arraigned today before United States Commissioner Long.
1924-03-09	I suppose every woman can remember the times in her life when she was speechless. It happens so seldom. And if that temporary paralysis meant as much to any one as it did to me, on one occasion, it is certain she would never forget it. It was there and then that I learned the value of a closed mouth and a quiet smile and although I haven't always profited by the lesson, it made an ineffaceable impression. It began at Luchow's, a famous little place where the members of the Biograph Company used to go for luncheon. I was still with the Biograph, getting $35 per week. But several members of the company had received offers from the New York Motion Picture Company, which was just starting. Mr. Sennett was going to direct comedies for them and he told me, at Luchow's that he thought I might be able to get a position with them. He thought they might give me as much as $50 per week and he suggested that I go with him to their offices and find out what they would offer. So I went. The company had elaborate offices in a big building at Union Square and after we waited a few minutes Mr. Sennett introduced me to Mr. Bauman and Mr. Kessel, the heads of the enterprise. They were very nice, said they had seen me on the screen and liked my work and asked me if I would sign with them providing they gave me feature parts and capitalized my name. At that time, as you will remember, the names of motion picture players were virtually unknown. It was the company that was featured. Mary Pickford was known as the 'Biograph Blonde'--can you imagine it? If any one ever spoke of me it was as 'the dark-haired girl of the Biograph' or something like that. The company considered it bad policy to play up the names of the actors. But Bauman and Kessel were going to depart from that policy. And they offered me $60 per week! Right there is where the silence occurred. I thought it was wonderful, but I didn't say anything for a minute and Mr. Bauman raised the offer to $75 per week. And while I sat there trying to find words to thank them and exercising my fingers so they would be ready to grab a pen, they excused themselves and went into the next room for a conference. 'Oh, oh,' I said to myself, 'they're going to have an argument. He offered me too much and the rest of them won't pay it.' And I sat there ready to weep at having this chance to make real money snatched away from me. But when they came back, before I could tell them that I would take $60, Mr. Bauman announced that they had decided to offer me $100 provided I would sign a contract before I left the office. This time I got my mouth open, all right, but nothing came out of it. Absolutely nothing. Not even a gurgle. I thought if I could make $100 a week for one year I would have all the money I would need for the rest of my life. I just couldn't talk, so I finally closed my lips to wait until my tongue felt less than a foot think. And the next thing I heard was Mr. Bauman saying: 'I don't think Miss Normand is satisfied. I guess we had better make it $125 per week.' This time I managed to make motions for them to bring on the contract. I was afraid the building would burn down before I could sign it. Or they might have offered me $150 and then they would have had to phone for an ambulance. Anyhow I signed for it, somehow. And I started to work. The company had no studio. All our pictures were exteriors and were made at Fort Lee, N. J. They consisted almost entirely of 'chases.' Of course, there were a few other scenes but the pictures, invariably, were built around some one getting pursued by everyone else in the company. Ford Sterling was playing with me. Sometimes I would chase him and sometimes he would chase me. And then just to vary it a bit we would join forces and all the rest of the gang would chase us. The lack of equipment and of a studio worried us a great deal and most of the members of the company were very discouraged over the first few pictures. But they proved a great hit and made a considerable amount of money, for those days. That summer was terribly hot and we had been working so hard that the company decided to sent us all to California for the winter and let us make pictures out there. So we started in at a studio in Edendale, on the site of the present Sennett studio. At that time it consisted of a small house, one stage and a row of four or five dressing rooms. It was at this time that Mr. Sennett originated the idea of the 'comedy cops' and the Keystone Comedies, as the pictures were called, became famous for these policemen and their decrepit patrol wagon. A good bit of our stuff we used to 'steal.' Thomas H. Ince, for instance, was making war pictures at that time. I think he was filming 'Civilization' and several others that called for a lot of gunpowder and dynamite. And we used it all, never fear. Whenever we heard there was to be an explosion of some sort at 'Inceville,' down we would go, cops and all, and we would be somewhere around, out of range of Mr. Ince's cameras when the 'shot' went off. We were plenty close, too. Rocks and cinders dropped all around us, but Ford Sterling and I kept right on working. We really didn't feel natural if we weren't dodging boulders or running down a hill with the top of the hill slipping after us. And the cops became so agile I believe they could have dodged all the raindrops in a cloudburst. But we enjoyed it. It was great fun. 'Stealing' our stuff was lots more exciting than just 'shooting' it on our own. Mr. Sterling and I became quite adept at it. I remember a baby show that was held on the roof of a big department store. We wanted to work this into a picture, but some other company had bought the rights to have their cameras on the roof. So we just butted in, as usual. We were escorted off that roof thirteen separate and distinct times, but we weren't a bit discouraged. Being thrown out didn't mean a thing. Back we would come and the camera man would get a lot of people around him to conceal the camera until the right minute, then they would step aside and I would leap off the platform where the babies were being judged and rush madly toward the camera with Ford in close pursuit. The other company would make a fuss and some real 'cops' would lead us gently but firmly to the stairway. We had more fun than a circus that afternoon. We substituted a child of slightly darker hue for one that a fond mother had left in a perambulator and the baby show almost broke up in a riot when she came back a little too soon. Meanwhile Mr. Sennett was looking for an additional comedian and the New York office of Keystone wired him that they had seen an English comedian at the old Hammerstein Theater with whom they were very much impressed. They thought it might be a good idea for Sennett to talk to him and find out how he would photograph. His name, they said, was Chaplin, first name Charles. But reaching Chaplin proved difficult. He was on tour and Sennett wired him at several different places with no result. Charlie didn't realize what was being shaken in his face and it wasn't until he came to the old Pantages Theater in Los Angeles that Sennett managed to talk with him. I remember the night we all went down to see Chaplin. We liked his performance and Mr. Sennett went back-stage to talk with him. He brought him out and my first meeting with Charlie was on the sidewalk in front of Pantages. I can see him now. He had on a checked suit, a black bow tie and a derby hat, and, at that time, he had a very pronounced English accent. At first he didn't seem to care much about talking business with Mr. Sennett. He had an idea of going back to England and he didn't want to leave his act until he was ready to depart. But after a visit to the studio he finally agreed to take the job as soon as he could arrange to have some one fill his place in his act. He signed for a year with Keystone at a salary of $100 per week. For a while Charlie and I played together but he soon became so popular that he was featured in separate pictures. We worked hard and fast in those days. We used to make a picture and have it ready to send to New York in two weeks. And when Charlie's year was up he was perfectly willing to sign with Keystone again, at an advance in salary. He wanted $200 a week, if I remember rightly, and Mr. Sennett wanted to give him $175. They negotiated for some time over this difference. We were all at San Francisco, I remember, attending Mayor Rolph's ball and Chaplin came up there to talk with Sennett. While they were still disputing over terms (Mr. Sennett had to count the pennies because he was allowed a very small sum to make his pictures), Charlie met Broncho Billy Anderson, who was making pictures for Essanay at Niles, Calif. Mr. Anderson realized Chaplin's tremendous talent and offered him $500 per week to sign with Essanay. Charlie told me about it at the time and we were both thrilled. But he didn't want to go to Chicago, where the head office of Essanay was located, and he didn't give Mr. Anderson a definite answer. The next day I met Charlie on the street and he told me that Essanay had offered him $1000 per week. Well! Neither of us said a word. We just put our hands on our hips and stood and looked at each other. Again I was speechless. And so was Charlie. 'Do you think they mean it?' he asked me. 'Do you really believe they can be serious? Is there that much money?' It was so amazing that he should jump, overnight, from $100 to $1000 per week that we couldn't believe it. We thought Essanay were just talking for exercise. But it was all true and Charlie signed the contract and went to Chicago at the first really big salary in the history of motion pictures. It was shortly after this that Mr. Griffith, Mr. Ince and Mr. Sennett united in forming the Triangle Motion Picture Company and that was where I got my first real chance. I was still making two-reelers almost exclusively but it was decided to let me graduate. I had made, I believe, only two five- reelers up to that time. One was 'Tillie's Punctured Romance,' with Chaplin and Marie Dressler, and the other was a picture with Owen Moore. So they built a studio on Sunset boulevard, called it the Mabel Normand studio and began to make 'Mickey.' F. Richard Jones was the director and the picture proved to be the first real big comedy hit of the industry. By virtue of having been the star of that picture I became a very valuable young lady and I too began to get $1000 per week. It was at about this time that I received a long distance phone call from Samuel Goldwyn, in New York. He had told me, previously, that if ever I expected to make a change to let him know and when he telephoned me it was to say that he was leaving the Famous Players-Lasky Company, organizing Goldwyn pictures, and would like to have me work for him at an increase in salary. After a considerable amount of negotiations I accepted his offer and went to New York to appear in Goldwyn pictures. My first release was called 'Three Million Dollars' and was directed by the late George Loane Tucker who directed 'The Miracle Man.' I remained with Goldwyn all through the war and had several directors who since have become national figures in the industry. Next week I will tell you of my return to the Sennett company and of my more recent days in pictures.
1924-03-16	Lack of punctuality is said to be an indication of poor breeding. If that is true, I must be the most ill-bred person in the world. I'm always late, somehow or other, no matter how hard I try to be on time. And when I was working for the Goldwyn Company I used to get a daily scolding either from Mr. Goldwyn or from Abraham Lehr, his associated, for this very bad fault. But I escaped once, thanks to a happy thought. I was reminded of it yesterday by glancing over Mr. Goldwyn's book on the screen in which he relates the incident. I was supposed to be on the set, made up, at 9 o'clock. But I wasn't there, and as I was hurriedly donning the make-up in my dressing room I cudgeled my brain for some excuse which would let me out of the scolding I knew I deserved. I had just had some new photographs taken which were very good, so I seized one of them, autographed it to Mr. Lehr and dashed out on the set. 'Here's what made me late,' I declared to Mr. Lehr, who was standing there with a face like a thundercloud. 'It took me a terribly long time to make up my mind what to write on your picture.' Mr. Lehr took the photograph and read: Roses are read And violets blue. When I'm late I think of you. That saved my life. The storm clouds lifted, and I went to work, thankful for the inspiration. But my pictures with the Goldwyn Company were not particularly good, in my opinion. The stories were more suitable, in some instances, for the stage than the screen, which made it very difficult for the director and the star to turn out creditable work. I felt I was standing still, and I wanted to progress. Three years I worked for Goldwyn, two of them at Fort Lee, N. J., and the last year at Culver City. And it was when I came to California that John Waldron, general manager for Mack Sennett, brought me a story to read. It was 'Molly-O.' He told me Mr. Sennett had suggested if I liked it and thought I would like to do it, I might come back to the Sennett fold. I did like it and talked the matter over with Mr. Goldwyn and Mr. Lehr, both of whom I found most fair, as they had always been. While we were discussing the matter I did 'Head Over Heels' for the Goldwyn Company and after that they released me from my contract and I signed with Mr. Sennett to do 'Molly-O.' This was followed by 'Suzanna,' and it was during the filming of that picture that the death of William Taylor occurred. Mentioning this matter is very unpleasant. I don't like it. Who would? Who would like to discuss, publicly, the tragic death of a friend? Not only is it personally painful, but, to my mind, it smacks of bad taste. However, Mr. Taylor's death and the tremendous public interest it aroused brought all of us who knew him well so much into the limelight that it seems silly to write my life story without mentioning it. I had known Bill Taylor casually for years. I believe I first met him when he was directing Carlyle Blackwell across the street from the Sennett studio, but I saw him very seldom, and it was not until about a year before his death that I began to know him at all well. We were at a dinner party one night and sat beside each other. The party wasn't particularly interesting and we began to talk about various things, the screen, books, life in general. I found him extremely well informed and I liked his viewpoint of things. He was a brilliant man, a man of remarkable intelligence. We got into an animated discussion on several books we had read and the evening passed so pleasantly that we both remarked on it when the party broke up. I did not see him again for about two weeks, when he called me on the phone and asked me to go to the opening of a picture at a downtown theater. After that I saw him rather frequently until he went abroad. And when he came back it happened that I was starting East on a vacation and our trains passed each other. When I returned in October and started to make 'Suzanna' our friendship was revived. He had brought me some beautiful books from Europe, and we went to concerts and to see pictures together. He would tell me about new books he had read and would send them to me to see if my opinion was the same as his. It wasn't, always, and we had many a friendly argument about them. During November I saw him seldom, as I was working very hard. We were trying to finish 'Suzanna' on time and I was too tired at night to go out. I remember the studio gave me a birthday party on the tenth of November. It was at Mr. Sennett's home and nearly every one connected with 'Suzanna' was there. I invited Mr. Taylor to go and I don't remember seeing him very much after that until the middle of December. He passed my house in the morning on the way to the studio and sometimes he would stop. Usually I was getting ready to go to the studio and if I had not finished making up I would wave to him from the window and he would go on. If I was ready he would come in for a minute, leave a book and talk about what he was doing or discuss my progress on 'Suzanna.' On Christmas Day he called on me and gave me a beautiful set of Browning for a Christmas gift. Please don't think I'm trying to picture myself as a high-brow. I realize that a movie actress who reads Browning sounds like an anomaly, but I've read him, just the same. I'm not prepared to say, however, that I'm absolutely crazy about him. Mr. Taylor asked me where I was dining Christmas night. When I told him he said he had been invited there, too, but would come late. We had a long talk that night and during the holidays I saw him more frequently. New Year's Eve I dined with him and some of his friends at the Alexandria Hotel. During January I saw him several times a week, if I remember rightly. He would stop by my house and several times, on my way back from downtown I would stop at his home to return a book, to borrow one or to talk over scenes in 'Suzanna' with him. I had great respect for his judgment and asked his advice frequently. On the afternoon of the night he was killed, I went downtown very late, to have some silverware monogrammed. Some of it had been given me for Christmas and some of it I had given other people and asked them to let me have it monogrammed for them. I went to two different jewelry stores and had difficulty getting in as it was the closing hour. But I finished my business, finally, went to a safe deposit box and left some things there and then telephoned to my house. I told my maid I thought I would stay downtown for dinner and see a picture. But she said Mr. Taylor had phoned several times and said he had a book for me that I had been trying to get. It had been a cloudy day and no one was working on location or on 'outside sets.' I think the book was something by Ethel M. Dell. My maid also told me I had a call from the studio to report for work at 8 o'clock. 'Why don't you come home for dinner?' she said. 'Stop at Mr. Taylor's and get the book and come home and go to bed. You will need the rest if you have to get up early.' So I said I would not stay down and I told my driver to go to Mr. Taylor's. His butler answered my ring and said Mr. Taylor was talking over the phone. I went in and I could hear him talking. But his answers consisted of 'yes' and 'no,' and in thinking of it afterward I got no clue to the person on the other end of the wire. 'Oh, I know what you've come for,' he said when he hung up the receiver. 'Mamie (my maid) told you I had that book for you.' He was having dinner and I sat at the table with him for a few minutes and then told him I was going home as I had to rise early. He said he would go to the car with me, and as we were walking he said he had a lot of work to do, but might call me about 9 o'clock to see how I liked the book. But he never called. The last I saw of Bill Taylor was when he waved 'good-by' to me as my car pulled away from the curb. I turned and waved to him through the glass in the back. But I didn't think it was going to be such a long good-by. In the morning, while I was making up to go on location for 'Suzanna,' my telephone rang. It was a friend who lived in the same court with Taylor. She told me that his butler was running up and down the court shrieking that Bill was dead. 'He died of heart failure,' she said. I implored her to find out if it was true and to call me back immediately. In a few minutes she called again. 'Yes, it's true,' she said. It was a terrible shock. I liked and admired him so much. And I had talked with him only twelve hours before. I phoned the studio that I could not work that day and took off that remnant of my make-up that had not already been ruined by tears. As a matter of fact it was three weeks before I returned to work. Those of you who followed the Taylor case, in all its intensity, undoubtedly realize what I went through. I was the last person known to have seen him alive. I was interviewed, questioned, had statements taken by stenographers and was harassed by newspapermen until I was forced to move into the country and was on the verge of nervous prostration. Detectives and district attorneys swarmed around me and my name was flaunted on the front page of every newspaper in the country for weeks. It was a terrible experience. As I look back on it now, I don't blame them, so much. They wanted to find out who had perpetrated this atrocious murder. And they were leaving no stone unturned that might hide a clue. But at the time I did blame them. I thought it was terribly unfair. I was doing everything I could to help the authorities, but no one seemed to give me any credit for it whatever. And that is why I want to say right here that there is no person in the world who will be as glad as Mabel Normand when the murderers of Bill Taylor are brought to justice. Not only because he was my friend, but because I have a peculiarly feminine desire to have a lot of people feel sorry for the way they treated me during those hectic days. I believe implicitly that Taylor's death will be solved. It is impossible for me to believe that the person or persons who did that thing will escape forever from paying for their crime. If I have my own convictions on the matter, I have not an iota of proof and my own experience would make me the last person to point a finger of suspicion unjustly. There, that's done. If you knew how I've been dreading this part of my story, how I hated to discuss this most poignant episode of my life, you would realize how glad I am that its finished. But there's still a fly in the ointment. Next week, in the last installment of my story, I suppose I've got to discuss the Dines matter. It, too, aroused a lot of public comment and I'm not going to dodge it. But it was very different from the Taylor case. It was so unnecessary, so foolish, almost a burlesque tragedy, but it came near being more serious, to me, than the death of Mr. Taylor. I have brought my story now up to the point of 'The Extra Girl,' my most recent picture. Next week I will finish and say 'Good-by,' or at least 'Au revoir.'
1924-03-23	There is one locality in which I have no desire to travel. It is the interior of Africa. For the reason that I am not particularly crazy about lions. I came to that decision during the filming of my most recent picture, 'The Extra Girl.' During several scenes in that picture I was on conversational terms with a lion, sitting almost between his paws and trying to look playful and unconcerned. Despite the assurance of his trainer that he was a really nice lion, as lions go, I doubt if my heart action was quite normal. I got through without mishap, despite the fact that I felt most of the time like a jungle cafeteria. But ever since I have had a great respect for Daniel. It was after 'The Extra Girl' was finished that Courtland Dines was shot by my chauffeur, Horace Greer. And once again my name was headlined throughout the country. What a futile, unnecessary mess it all was! It makes me fairly writhe, even now, in impotent anger, to think about it or to discuss it. It was so recent and the circumstances were blazoned so completely all over the United States that I suppose it is useless to tell the story over again. And as a matter of fact, I am unable, anyhow, to tell you just what occasioned the shooting. For I didn't see it. I supposed I was making a New Year's call, which I had intended to be brief. But I would have been better off if I had gone to the beach and spent a nice, quiet day in a shooting gallery. I had remained at home all that afternoon answering Christmas and New Year cards, and it was after 5 o'clock when I stopped at Mr. Dines' house after leaving word at home to call me and remind me of a fictitious engagement, so that I would have an excuse for leaving early. And when my driver came back for me, and Mr. Dines admitted him, I stepped to the door of another room to talk for a minute with Edna Purviance, who was standing before the mirror there. It was then that the shooting occurred, and just what occasioned it I still am at a loss to understand. Greer, who is a well-meaning boy, declares Dines attempted to hit him, and claims he shot in self-defense. Perhaps that is true. I don't know. But whether it is nor not, this fact remains, after the smoke has cleared away: Greer may have aimed at Dines, but he hit me, figuratively speaking. Dines was dangerously wounded, and Miss Purviance and I were escorted to the police station, where they took our statements while an enthusiastic crowd of newspaper men wrote furiously. Out over the country went the story and the censors began to sit up and sharpen their official shears. No waiting for an official inquiry. No calm sifting of the facts. I had been mentioned in headlines in a sensational story. And it was my second offense, since I had been 'featured' also in the Taylor case. So off must go my head. And for a time it looked like the head, filmically speaking, would roll on the stones of the courtyard. One censor in a Southern State wrote my studio and said, 'As far as we are concerned, Miss Normand is guilty until she proves herself innocent.' Twentieth century America! But before the movement to ban my films gained any real headway the common sense of the country began to assert itself. Anyone who doubts that our nation still has many a champion of fair play should have read my mail during the next few weeks. I used to sit and read those letters with tears of gratitude in my eyes. Most of them were from women. Anyone who ever tries to make me believe, after this, the old aphorism about woman's unfairness to other women will have an impossible task. I shall never forget the sense of justice that American women manifested toward me. In those thousands of letters the sentiment was almost identical. 'We are not going to sit by and watch this happen. We women have something to say about things, nowadays, and we're going to see that you get a square deal.' It was this storm of protest from fair-minded persons that slowed-up the censors and saved me from being thrown to the lions. As I write Greer's preliminary hearing has been held and he is bound over to the Superior Court to answer the charge of shooting Dines. It may be months before a decision is reached, and meanwhile newspaper stories will appear from time to time dealing with the 'Normand Case,' as some of them call it. Such are the penalties of earning one's living by appearing before the public. My pictures have been clean and wholesome always. I suppose even my most bitter critic will admit that. And to carry out the analogy of the censors if a prominent manufacturer of soups should be mentioned in a sensational newspaper story, would it not be consistent to advise every one immediately to refrain from partaking of his soup? But I don't want to seem to argue the matter. The facts in the case have been printed, voluminously. The public must judge for itself. After all, they are the final arbiters. But I've made a couple of resolutions. One is to always engage a chauffeur after this who has no 'chivalry complex' and who is so scared of all kinds of 'shooting-irons' that he will run a mile if any one shows him one. The other is to depart quickly wherever I hear a loud noise. Will Rogers says that if any one is shot in Los Angeles hereafter, and I am known to be in the city, I am certain to be arrested on suspicion. And from my one experience with police stations, I can think of a lot of places in which I would rather be. And now I have finished. This story has been brief, necessarily. Newspapers have not the space to print a really detailed life story. Only the high spots can be touched. But I've enjoyed telling it. And if it has been of interest, I'm glad. If it has bored you, in spots, I'm sorry. And I wonder, really, whether or not you have enjoyed it. Nothing is so interesting, so worthy of study as the complex mind of the public. Especially is it interesting to an actress. Not only because it means dollars and cents to her, if the public happens to like her, but because it is so variable, so dependent upon trifles and unconsidered details. It's a marvelous thing, the public mind. Politicians and showmen have been trying to anticipate it for a good many years. Most of them guess wrong. But it's a lot of fun guessing, anyhow. So now I make my exit from The Examiner columns. Or, perhaps it would be better to say my exit as far as my autobiography is concerned. It would be rather too much to expect a permanent vacation. Reportorial friends tell me I have become what they call 'good copy.' Whatever that it, I don't like it. But that doesn't seem to matter much. They make you like it. So here's hoping the next time I occupy the front page it will be something nice, something wholesome. In conclusion, may I say a word, a serious word, not only for myself, but for any other person in screen or stage circles who may by virtue of unkind circumstances, attain a measure of unpleasant notoriety. Be fair to them. Remember that since they are semi-public persons, an importance will be lent to their every action that may be entirely out of proportion to its true value. 'Judge not' is a good maxim for all of us. To criticize is easy. But to view the errors of our fellow-beings with human tolerance and a kindly heart is more difficult--and much more wonderful. Au 'voir, MABEL.
1924-03-30	John A. Ryan, accused leader of a blackmail plot against John L. Bushnell, Springfield (O.) banker and son of former Gov. Bushnell of that State, has been arrested by Federal agents in Chicago, Lucian C. Wheeler, agent in charge of the Bureau of Investigation in Los Angeles, reported yesterday. Ryan is under indictment in Cincinnati together with Lawrence McClean and R. G. Sheridan arrested recently in Los Angeles and returned to Cincinnati. Ryan is said to be the sixth and last member of the asserted blackmail gang to be arrested. Rose Cooley, alias Rose Putman, who formerly lived at 2575 Beechwood Avenue with her uncle, Dan Osborne, and Herbert I. Ross were convicted on the blackmail charge at Cincinnati and are serving sentences in the Atlanta penitentiary, according to Agent O. E. Meehan of the Bureauu of Investigation, who apprehended McClean and Sheridan. Osberne, alias H. L. Putman, is said also to be under indictment with Ryan and the others...
1924-06-16	In the testimony of Mabel Normand, film star witness in the trial of Horace Greer for the shooting of Courtland Dines on New Year's day, there are two features which will never go into the stenographic report. One of them is Miss Normand's broad--oh, very broad--'a.' It is 'a' as in 'bawth,' 'cawn't,' 'rawther' and 'pawdon.' A real Cavendish Square breadth of accent, so like dear old Lonnon! The other item of testimony doomed to escape the official record is Miss Normand's conversational hands--unless they bring a cinema into court to reproduce her answers. Taalk? Miss Normand's hands fairly chatter. They are voluble, loquacious. And when she gets excited they stutter. A running obligato of gesture accompanies her words. It began when, on being sworn, the comedienne inquired which hand to raise in taking the oath. After once getting her hands into gear, she threw them into high speed and illustrated every answer with a gesture. Attorney Hahn, cross-examining, displays a curiosity as to the bottle on the table of Dines' apartment. Miss Normand impersonates the pouring of the drink. She illustrates the exact size of right and proper drink, the amount remaining is measured by her hands, and the fluttering fingers go through the 'business' of the convivial scene. Her hands point out that delicate distinction between a man who is drunk and a man who is only 'drinking.' Her hands show the jury--which looks like a comfortable, motherly meeting of the Ladies' Aid into which two men have strayed inadvertently-- just how the door opened into the bedroom, just how she powdered her nose, just the way she gathered up the offending cigarette butts which marred the order of Dines' apartment on her arrival. Just the manner in which Dines announced that he had been 'plugged' and just the way a 'plugged' man looks when he is, as Miss Normand expresses it, 'all full of blood,' is acted out by the talkative hands. An airy wave and an outspread gesture depict the sound of the 'three firecrackers going off,' and another farflung gesticulation shows just how it feels to be deprived of one's own car and forced to ride to the police station with the officers. Didn't someone write a play to Mary's ankle? If anything so mute as an ankle is entitled to be made the theme of a drama, then some aspiring playwright should compose a scenario of the Dines New Year's celebration and title it 'Mabel's Fingers.'
1924-06-17	Very much like the 'three firecrackers going off,' to which Mabel Normand compared the shots that figured in the shooting of Courtland Dines at the interrupted New Year's party in his apartments was Mabel Normand's own testimony on the witness stand in Judge Crail's court yesterday. The difference was that Mabel's verbal firecrackers sputtered and blazed continuously as she told the story of the shooting, for which Horace Greer, her former chauffeur, is on trial. Miss Normand was by no means an unwilling witness, although she displayed a hazy memory on some points on which information was sought, Particularly when Defense Attorney S. S. Hahn placed her under cross- examination was she more than ready to come back with swift and emphatic answers that kept the crowded courtroom laughing. Once, when Hahn was working to tangle her in the meshes of 'what did you say when you testified before,' the Normand temper slipped its moorings. 'You haven't any right to cross examine me like that,' she said. 'What do you want to be so mean to me for? That isn't the way you were supposed to act.' Prosecution attorneys murmured something about manner toward witnesses, Judge Crail smiled. 'This witness seems perfectly able to take care of herself,' he said. Miss Normand began her story by telling of her visit to Dines' apartment in response to telephone invitations from Dines and Edna Purviance. 'The first thing I did was to pick up some cigarette butts,' she said, 'then we sat and talked like anybody.' The cigarette butts re-entered the examination when Greer's attorney made passing mention of 'While you were smoking.' 'I beg your pardon,' interrupted Miss Normand, icicles clinging to every word. 'I was not smoking.' 'I beg yours,' said the attorney, with a bow that called for a camera to record it. Later, said Miss Normand, Dines telephoned to her home and told Greer, her chauffeur, to bring over the Christmas gift that Dines had forgotten to take with him. Miss Normand was sitting on the couch near the door, she said, when Greer came in. Dines was standing near the table. Miss Purviance was in an adjoining room. 'I heard a knock, and Greer came in,' said Miss Normand. 'I walked over to the bedroom door to speak to Edna. I was just inside when I heard three noises, like firecrackers. Edna and I ran out into the living room.' 'I saw Dines all bent over. He said, 'I'm plugged.' He was all over blood. I just saw a white shirt and vest, then the whole crowd came in, after we had helped Dines over to the bed. I never saw so many people in my life at once. 'I didn't see Greer there, after Dines said he was plugged. I didn't hear Greer and Dines talking together at all. I didn't see any gun there.' Greer's counsel turned to the bottle with which the defense claimed Dines was about to strike Greer when the latter shot. A squat, brown, hospitable looking bottle, it stood on the counsel table with a cardboard tag tied around its plump neck. 'Is this the bottle you saw in Dines' apartment?' he demanded, after Miss Normand had insisted that she saw only one bottle. 'It looks like it, and it doesn't look like it,' answered Mabel. 'How much whisky was in it?' Mabel carefully measured out with thumb and finger about two perpendicular inches. 'That was all,' she said. 'Just enough for the three of us to have a little drink, when somebody said, 'It's New Year's.'' 'Dines,' said Mabel, 'was not exactly drunk, but he had plenty.' 'Isn't it a fact,' demanded the defense attorney, 'after he had quizzed Miss Normand over and over again on what she told Greer about calling for her, 'isn't it a fact that you told him that you were afraid to stay at Dines' place because you had to go to the hospital the next day, and you knew you would get drunk if you stayed?' Mabel's voice was full of ice again. 'Certainly not,' she said. 'I wouldn't talk to a driver about going to a hospital, and anyway, I wasn't going the next day.' Miss Normand was also very hazy about the gun. She had owned a gun, she said, but she didn't remember what it looked like, and she hadn't seen it for months and months. The gun which was produced in court looked much too clean and new to be hers, she said. 'Did you tell Greer to shoot Dines?' the defense counsel asked. 'What would I tell him a thing like that for?' countered Mabel. The defense questioned both Miss Normand and Edna Purviance about the amount of clothing that Dines had on. Both were rather vague about it, but they decided that all that was missing was a coat, and possibly an outside shirt... The prosecution is in charge of Chief Trial Deputy Charles Fricke and Deputy District Attorney Hammer, S. S. Hahn, Clarence Conlin and P. R. Simon represent Greer; Milton Cohen is Mabel Normand and [Claire] Woolwine watches over Miss Purviance's participation.
1924-06-17	...The reading of the testimony given by Dines at the preliminary hearing in the case was scheduled to follow Mrs. Burns' appearance on the stand. Dines, who is at the bedside of his father who is ill in Denver, displayed a remarkable lapse of memory when he testified. He said he couldn't remember that Greer shot him. Dines' lapse of memory and the haziness of the testimony of Miss Normand and Miss Purviance caused Justice Hanby [the judge at the preliminary hearing] to charge openly that there was collusion between the attorneys and the witnesses in the case to cause the charge against Greer to be dropped. And in this connection a remark made by Miss Normand while she was under cross-examination late yesterday was regarded as somewhat significant today. There were two versions of what Miss Normand said. Defense Attorney Hahn was questioning her sharply when she flared up. According to one version she said to Hahn: 'You haven't any right to cross-examine me like that. What do you want to be so mean to me for? That isn't the way you were supposed to act.' The other version was that she snapped out 'You aren't supposed to be so hard. The idea of cross-examining me like that! That wasn't the understanding I had with you.' But regardless of the words she used the gist of her remark was the same in both versions. However, if Hahn had any 'understanding' to be easy in his cross-examination of Miss Normand he certainly forgot it when he questioned her on her story of the shooting. There was considerable speculation today as to what caused Miss Normand to make the remark... The cross-examination of Miss Normand was marked by lively spats between her and Attorney Hahn and by her gesturing and the way she answered questions. The crowd got a tremendous 'kick' out of it. Once when she was cautioned to refer to Greer as Greer and not as 'Kelly,' the name he gave when she employed him, she turned to Judge Crail and expostulated: 'I beg your pardon, you honor. You see, I don't know the law. I mean, I don't know the defendant. How's that?' Again, when she was asked how big a man Dines was, she turned to Judge Crail with a sweet smile and said: 'Your honor, I think Mr. Dines was just like you, your honor. May I say that?' 'We'd better not make the matter too personal,' said the judge, sternly. Hahn asked her if she had told Greer to shoot Dines. 'For heaven's sake--no!' she retorted. 'Why should I tell anybody to plug anybody, anyhow?' She said Dines had not been 'exactly drunk,' but that he had 'had plenty.' And when she was asked to account for Greer's actions when Dines was shot, she said, 'He must have been crazy or wild--I do not know.' Substantially, her testimony as the same as she gave at the preliminary hearing. She said her back was toward Greer and Dines when she heard three sounds 'like firecrackers popping' and when she turned around Dines was pressing his hands to a spot of blood on his chest and gasping, 'I've been plugged.' She said she had not seen Greer shot. She admitted there had been drinking in the apartment and measured off two inches on the whisky bottle taken from the apartment as the amount left in the bottle when she arrived. 'Just enough for three drinks,' she said...
1924-06-19	The case for Horace Greer, former chauffeur for Mabel Normand, tried for shooting Courtland Dines during a party Dines staged with Miss Normand and Edna Purviance New Year's day, was ready for the jury today... Greer, who refused to testify in his own defense because, he said, he would 'rather go to the penitentiary than say anything that would hurt Miss Normand' watched the jurors closely as Fricke was completing the arguments. His decision to stay off the witness stand, which caused the attorneys to throw up their hands in consternation, was made at the last minute, after his attorneys had promised he would testify and 'tell everything.' Without having produced one word of testimony, Greer's lawyers were compelled to rely on what they said were flaws in the prosecution's case in their arguments to the jury. They shouted that Dines' own testimony and that of the other prosecution witnesses upheld Greer's story he shot in self defense. Defense Attorney Conlin pictured the New Year's day party at Dines' apartment as a Roman saturnalia where Dines, Miss Normand and Miss Purviance were defying the constitution by drinking. He characterized Greer as the 'only clean soul' of the four, who was intent upon rescuing his employer from what was going on... Conlin said Greer shot Dines because Dines reached for a bottle to strike him with when he insisted that Miss Normand return home with him. 'Which was the more honorable?' he asked. 'Was it Mabel, the cigarette girl, who wants us to believe she was there as an uplifter? Was it Dines, the Roman gladiator, posing in his undershirt and reaching for the whisky bottle? Or was it this boy Greer, the only sober one there, who wanted to take his employer from such a scene?' S. S. Hahn, chief defense counsel, devoted his argument to a flaw- picking attack on Dines' 'I-don't-remember' story. He ridiculed the testimony given by Miss Normand and Miss Purviance. 'They don't want the truth of this affair to become known,' he said. 'They are afraid it will besmirch the motion picture profession. But the stars have got their punishment and the only lesson that a jury can teach such dark stars is by acquitting this boy.'...
1924-09-01	...She avers that the animals of those Selig serials absolutely terrified her--and charmed her. When she had to ride on elephants she was panic-stricken. That is why she cherishes such a profound regard for elephants that she wants to ride them in India. She craves adventure. It is probably a Viking heritage, she muses. Her father was Norwegian, her mother Welsh. The Nordic blood is dominant in her. She is made two expeditions into China. Last year she just missed the Chinese bandits by one day when they made their celebrated raid and capture of travelers. 'I was terribly disappointed to have missed them,' she observed with an airy laugh. 'I wanted to go back and say, 'Here I am.''... 'There are two things I love in life,' says Kathlyn, 'work and travel. Not travel among the capitals of Europe but among the places untracked by civilization. '...I crave adventure, and that is not to be found in Hollywood. The one thing you are sure to find in Hollywood is disillusionment. 'I was always looking for the great opportunity. Always, just over the hill, I expected to find what I wanted. And always what I found fell short of my ambition. Now I haven't ambition--that is, I pretend I haven't. But I suppose I still dream on, for I am still fascinated with my work.'... In serious confession she admits she has but two fears. One alone she would name--the fear of living too long. 'The tragedy is not in death. I shrink from pain but not death. The real tragedy of life is in living beyond one's time, beyond the time when work and adventure can give zest. Weariness of soul and body, the sense of futility, the age when hope flickers low, these constitute the tragedy. It is not disappointment in love, failure in business, loss of fortune that makes for stark tragedy but tedium, relentless tedium.'... In her home that reigns on a queenly eminence, commanding a view of the purple hills and the valley that sweeps to the sea, we talked of philosophy in the comfortable glow of the library. There were books on the table and on the shelves. 'I've grasped at them all, but when I've finished I confess honestly that I do not know,' observed Miss Williams. 'Of course, there is always Omar Khayyam for final resort, but his philosophy is really one of despair. I reject it.' Again that gay, whimsical laugh that is characteristic of her. 'We are getting too serious. It is the twilight.'...
1924-09-01	Did you ever run ten blocks to a fire and then find that it was only some measly little woodshed burning? Sure you have and so have we. In fact that is about the only kind we ever did run to until recently. And then we felt repaid for all the futile miles we had run. For this fire was different. It was a garage fire and among the eight garages blazing was one that belonged to Mabel Normand. And in her garage was a spick and span limousine. It was and still is the pride of her heart, despite the fact that the flames damaged it about $1,000 worth. But it was not the burning or saving of her limousine that made the fire such a success from the spectators' viewpoint. The fair Mabel furnished the excitement. Aroused from peaceful slumbers, she rushed to the garage clad only in her pajamas, slippers and a filmy something thrown over her shoulders. She has appeared in many fire scenes in pictures but never to better advantage than she did that early morning. The dashing comedienne took command of the firemen in directing their work of saving her garage and limousine, and no firemen ever worked harder or more valiantly than did those gallants of the Wilshire fire station. When it was all over she took them into her home and served breakfast. It was some fire and some breakfast.
1924-10-01	At last Hollywood has seen Douglas Fairbanks' 'The Thief of Bagdad.' No picture ever made has been awaited with such eager interest by the film colony itself, and the opening night at Grauman's Hollywood theater was one of those unforgettable occasions, marred only by the absence of Doug and Mary, who were somewhere on the high seas, bound for America. The scene was an amazing one, from the crowd that packed the streets outside, to the interior of the theater, transformed for the production of this picture into a veritable Arabian Nights palace, filled with incense and Oriental perfumes, magnificent tapestries and rich colors, dancing girls and throbbing Eastern music. In the audience were Norma Talmadge, Constance Talmadge, Madame Alla Nazimova, with the most fascinating new bob above a frock of gold and coral; Florence Vidor, in cream chiffon with orchids; Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Meighan, Mr. and Mrs. Harold Lloyd (Mildred wore the daintiest of Boue Souers frocks under a summer evening wrap of pale pink chiffona du marabou); Mr. and Mrs. Reginald Denny (Mrs. Denny in a smart taffeta frock of blended pastel colors); Mr. and Mrs. Earle Williams, the latter stunning in cloth of gold and flame net; Miss Jeanie MacPherson, wearing a gorgeous evening coat of green silk shot with gold and banded with gold embroidery; Mr. and Mrs. Walter Morosco (Corrine Griffith), Paul Bern, Mabel Normand, all in white satin trimmed with rhinestones under an evening wrap of ermine; Mr. and Mrs. George Archainbaud, Kathleen Clifford, in scalloped white chiffon ornamented with red silken roses; Mae Busch, black and silver; Jack Pickford and Marilyn Miller, Mr. and Mrs. Allan Forrest (Lottie Pickford), Mr. and Mrs. Robert Leonard (Mae Murray--in some shimmering white and silver thing, with a coat of delicate canary yellow); Mr. and Mrs. Norman Kerry, Priscilla Dean, in autumn leaf brown, with a big picture hat of the same color; Mr. and Mrs. Conrad Nagel, Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Ray, George Fitzmaurice, Eugene O'Brien and Mr. and Mrs. Monta Bell.
1924-11-10	On a visit to his studio the other day I asked Mack Sennett what constitutes the art of the movies. 'Why,' he replied, without any hesitation, 'you've gotta slap 'em down good.' Mr. Sennett is one who brings to contemplation of his art none of the factitious ideals inspired in our serious critics by reading the essays of Cecil DeMille's press agent in the daily journals. And slapstick comedy as produced by Mr. Sennett is the only art worthy of the name that has emerged from the movies to date. Slapstick is real genre. The wistful irony of Chaplin's creation: a small, oppressed individual, becoming more ridiculous as he tries to maintain his dignity amidst overwhelming catastropher; and, under the same circumstances, the cheeky Americanism of a Harold Lloyd, the immovable gravity of a Buster Keaton, the childish absurdity of a Ben Turpin--these qualities are art. Or at least they go to make up something that is an art, because it is a perfect accomplishment in its own peculiar medium. 'These highbrow movies,' Mr. Sennett told me, 'are uncertain. But with a comedy there's just one test. Did they laugh? If they did--it's art.' Thanks to the demiurge who presides over the future of art in America, Mr. Sennett has abandoned the stupid melodramas which disgraced his only incursion into the serious movies, and has gone back to the two-reel slapstick comedies that made him famous. He has gone back--with restrictions. The idea of romance still sticks in his head. His method now is to contrast the idyllic with the grotesque; the pastoral with the violent; the sentimental with a burlesque counterpart of itself. Such perhaps is the natural arc of the ascending medium. Nothing stands still, certainly not the movies. I suppose we cannot justly have expected slapstick to fix itself sempiternally in that mold given form by the delightful antics of the Keystone cops. The Keystone cops are no more. As Mr. Sennett explained: 'Well, the real cops began to get pretty sore. Said why did we kid law and order all the time. Somebody even accused us of being Bolsheviks. That wouldn't do. Besides, we began to get new ideas. Other things came along-- new gags--new characters. The comedies keep changing like everything else, but the principle remains the same. You've gotta slap 'em down good!' If there is anything in the movies about which I could grow sentimental it would be the old Sennett lot. The Sennett studio at 1712 Glendale Boulevard--in what has become a half-residence, half-factory region--is the oldest studio still operating in Los Angeles. Through the years it has been built up by additions of rooms, sheds, stages, wings, ells, towers, stories and super-structures, until it has become the modern counterpart of a medieval castle. The flavor of the Sennett studio is its charming vulgarity. Nobody pretends to be anything except himself. The Sennett studio is the only one in existence that maintains a tradition, the stronger because it is unconscious. It is like the great workshop of some craftsmaster of the renaissance, wherein his apprentices carry on--work, eat, dally, and enjoy life--under the beneficent eye of the master. A Rabelaisian mood prevails-- cordial, gustful, warming the heart as with a flavor of good wine and mutton roasting on spits before the open hearth. In the upper story of the castle keep, overlooking the entrance, is the master's quarters. The office reminds one of the interior of a private Pullman: long, narrow, paneled in cheery wood in the manner of Pullman cars, and equipped with bright brass cuspidors. Here I was received by Mr. Sennett with a handclasp that made me dance. A bulking, square figure, deep-chested, red-faced, dark hair beginning to gray, strong jaws enjoying a chew of scrap tobacco. An Irish policeman--if ever one stepped out of a uniform. But this genius who would have made an excellent policeman, then an alderman, then a mayor, chose rather to be a comedian, then a director, then a producer. Fame and fortune lay in either course, but for the sake of art let us rejoice that Mr. Sennett stayed out of politics. I asked him about the early days of the comedies. He related how the Biograph chiefs looked with fear and disfavor on his first efforts at slapstick. 'Why,' he chortled, 'I was slated to be canned at the finish of every picture. They used to say, 'Can't you be funny without being so rough?' ''No,' I'd tell 'em, 'I can't. You've gotta get the laughs, haven't you. Well, what do you want me to do, have the girl stick her toe in the brook and make moon eyes at the boy across the way? Bah! It won't work. You've gotta slap 'em down good!' 'When these comedies where shown in England they seemed to catch on. Funny, it was the English audiences that saved my job. I'd have been fired if the slapstick stuff hadn't started to make money across the pond right away.' Mr. Sennett organized the Keystone Comedy company in New York. Then came Chaplin. 'Fred Mace was going to quit me,' said Mr. Sennett. 'He'd been offered more dough than I could pay. I tried to coax him to stick, but there was nothing doing. Then I remembered a little Englishman I'd seen one night at Morris' three-a-day on the American roof. I hired Chaplin. 'He didn't have that make-up he uses now. That was assembled in the costume department on this lot. The same room you can see down there.' The Keystone company had moved to California seeking sunshine. 'Chaplin tried out several different make-ups. The first he used was a drunk--man in evening clothes, about fifty years old, with a red nose. The first make-ups didn't go very well. We kept on experimenting. In the early days we comedians used to put on new make-ups and run around the stage to see if we could get a laugh from the rest of the gang. We were just like a lot of kids. Used to bring out mattresses and practice falls. Say, did you every try to fall straight back and keep your hands at your sides? Pure relaxation. That's the secret of the acting profession. It goes for tragedy just the same as for comedy, too.' I recalled how all the funniest comedians practiced this maxim of their preceptor; how, in the midst of the most exciting circumstances they always wear that ridiculous air of relaxation, of complete detachment, and how much funnier it makes them. 'There is more of a story in the comedy we make now,' Mr. Sennett summed up. 'Instead of putting in gags just to get laughs, we let the gags grow out of the plot. The situation suggests the business. But the principle remains the same,' he concluded genially. 'It's what I told 'em in the beginning and it's what I tell you now. You can talk about the art of the movies and all that, but the one thing to remember, and believe me, it's mighty important, and that is: 'You've gotta slap 'em down good!'
1925-01-01	...Olive Thomas had no girlhood. She was born as Oliveretta Duffy, and grew up in a depressing, smoky Pennsylvania industrial atmosphere. She married into that life of grime, labor and sweat--a life unbearable. That marriage was a desperately unhappy one. The girl fled to New York, taking refuge in a cousin's household in Harlem. She haunted the streets of uptown New York looking for work and found it at last behind a basement counter in a department store. She had escaped the grime of Pittsburgh for the grind of a shop-girl in an inferior market. Then came one of those bits of Aladdin magic which are the lure of New York. A newspaper bidding for shop-girl circulation announced that Howard Chandler Christy, the famous artist, was holding a competition for a perfect model, the supreme New York beauty. There were prizes to be awarded, and the glory of having one's picture in the paper. Oliveretta Duffy had recovered a bit from the depressions of Pittsburgh, and there was a radiant Irish beauty just back of her eyes, ready to bloom. She took a chance, reported sick at the store and in her pathetic best clothes went downtown to the Christy studio to sit waiting with the throng of ambitious. It was a convention of the piquant beauties of the New York shop girl. Every race of the metropolitan melting pot was represented in that array. Oliveretta Duffy won, the prize, the picture in the paper, the publicity, everything. Now over in Broadway Florenz Ziegfeld was engaged in his business of 'glorifying the American girl' per the 'Follies.' His merchandise was and is feminine beauty, preferably famous beauty. Here was youth and beauty, with a brand new fame in the papers. Oliveretta Duffy went to the Follies and burst into fame as Olive Thomas. She was a sudden sensation, the toast of Broadway. Strong men grew dizzy under her eyes. She was overwhelmed with admiration and gifts of treasure, diamond necklaces, pendants, rings, parties, orchids, everything that the dreaming little shop girl might fancy on the screen of her imagination. It was even whispered about that the great Bernstorff, the German ambassador, had sent Miss Thomas a ten thousand dollar string of pearls. On the wave of adulation Miss Thomas was signed by Triangle Pictures Corporation for the screen...
1925-04-01	Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean have sailed for Honolulu to spend a few weeks of well-earned vacation. Doug has just completed his latest and best comedy, 'Introduce Me,' which caused an absolute riot when it was seen at The Writers at a preview the other evening. Doug made four pictures under this last contract, and this was the last one. When he started out to make these, he had a pretty hard time convincing anybody of just how good he was, and just why he ought to be a real star on his own. Now after the amazing success of his four pictures, 'Going Up,' 'The Yankee Consul,' Never Say Die,' and 'Introduce Me,' the producers are coming to him. In those four pictures, MacLean has put himself up with Lloyd, Chaplin and Keaton as one of the great screen comedians.
1925-04-01	[Kathlyn Williams' scalp was once clawed by a leopard. The incident was retold many times, with a wide variation in the details. Cowboy star Tom Mix was working for Selig at that time, and in 1925 he wrote a highly-fanciful series of autobiographical articles, giving this account of the incident:] ...Right here, before going into some of the adventures that befell us in Florida, I'd like to say that Miss Kathlyn Williams was a wonderful woman and that it sure was a privilege to work with her. It wasn't only that she was a mighty brave woman, but she had a fine disposition, and she was sweet and smiling no matter how tough the going might be, and sometimes it was pretty bad, for we worked under great difficulties and most of the time lived the same way. Making that kind of pictures was a heap different than the things they do nowadays and the animals were the chief part of it, too. I remember that we had a troup of leopards with us, and their trainer allowed that they were tame leopards, but I have seen a lot tamer things in my time. We had build a great big corral, or cage of wire, and we worked inside that, with all the tropical atmosphere, but still where the animals couldn't get away. I had one experience with a leopard down there that was like what you read about in books but that is the only time I ever saw it happen in real life. We wanted to show on the screen, the leopard finding Miss Williams asleep under a log and springing on her. And the way we planned to get it was like this--Miss Williams laid down on one side of the log, right close to it, and on the other side was the leopard. We had a chicken pegged on the same side as Miss Williams, and we'd move the chicken and the leopard would leap high in the air, right over Miss Williams, and land on the chicken. Then we'd cut with him in midair. Then with another leopard trained for the part would continue the fight. It went great the first time. The second time, just as the leopard started to spring, the breeze caught Miss Williams' hair and blew it around. It caught his attention and before anyone could move, he had sprung right on Miss Williams, one paw putting five deep cuts in her head. She fainted. It was so quick no one could realize it. My gun was some five feet away, and I was afraid to move for fear the sound would make him strike instantly. I was only a few feet from him, and right in front of me was his tail. I could see it twitching back and forth, back and forth, like the tail of a cat with a mouse. As I told you, cats are my natural enemies, and for a second I didn't know what I could do, that wouldn't make him kill Miss Williams, or maim her, before I could stop him. Then an idea came to me, and I just reached forward and with all my strength grabbed that moving tail and swung. He was a big leopard, but I just managed to lift him clean, and someone snatched Miss Williams. He turned on me in a fury, and we stood there looking at each other, just staring. Some folks that was watching, thought I was right cool and collected on that occasion, but the truth was I was paralyzed with fear, though I was trying to figure out if maybe I couldn't get him by the throat when he sprang. And then, as we stared, that leopard suddenly began to shift, dropped his head and his tail, and slunk away into the trees...
1925-04-01	The little village of Patterson, Louisiana, where Marguerite Clark has lived with her husband ever since she left the screen, lies about eighty miles west of New Orleans in the picturesque Evangeline country. If you saw 'The White Rose' you will recognize it all; the long, lazy bayous lined with water hyacinths, the live oaks hung with moss, the wild roses, the palmettos, the mocking birds that sing from dawn to midnight. It is different from Broadway, different from Hollywood, different from anything in the world but old Cajan Louisiana where the inhabitants still speak French... Mrs. Harry Williams is still 'Miss Marguerite' to the villagers. When the speak of her it is with something very like reverence, for is she not sending five Patterson girls through college and is not 'Mr. Harry' doing the same for nearly twenty youths? 'They haven't any children of their own, but they do everything for our children,' says Patterson as one man. Charity quite literally begins at home for Mr. and Mrs. Williams--no farther away than the long village street on which they live. Patterson is flattered, too, that the famous screen actress and her husband really do live there. They don't look upon their estate as merely a weekend affair and, aside from occasional trips to New Orleans and very occasional ones north, they spend all their time in the country with their thirteen dogs, their chicken farm, their flowers and their lumber mills. 'Harry is so crazy about sports that we do travel about a bit for the football and baseball games at the different colleges,' said Mrs. Williams, who is as quiet and unassuming as though she had been mistress of the big old house since babyhood. 'But,' she added, with that smile which is just as charming as when you saw it in 'Bab,' 'there really isn't anything very picturesque about us. We live a quiet country life like anybody else. I am busy with my flowers and my dogs, flowers grow like magic in this warm country and I am free to mess in them all I like. Harry's office is near enough for him to come home to lunch and in the evening we play bridge or Mah Jong or go to the local moving picture house. Although ours is only a small place the films are as good as in the cities.' Mrs. Williams has changed very little since those enchanting days of 'The Seven Sisters.' She is still tiny and demure and her red brown hair is worn in a shingle bob just as it has been for the last six years. She assures you that it is going to stay that way. 'One can't wear curls forever and it is so much more convenient this way,' is how she expresses it. Her eyes are just the color of her hair and she still deserves the tribute of being one of America's best dressed women. Also, if she has left the screen it doesn't mean that she has lost interest in it. 'The fans still write me by the hundreds,' she confided. 'Isn't it adorable? I still get letters from all parts of the country and from people of all ages. Most of them write me charming personal letters saying how glad they are that I am happily married and devoted to my husband. Many of them come from screen aspirants, both young and old, and to all of them I say the same thing--Don't try for the motion pictures unless you have money enough to wait for success and character enough to stand disappointment. To tear off to Hollywood without money and expect to burst into fame is a heartbreaking proposition, and to become famous without experience is almost unheard of. The fans see the honor and glory without realizing the months and sometimes years of hard work that lies behind it.' Mrs. Williams admits that she was offered the role of 'Peter Pan' which Marilyn Miller is now playing in New York, and she also admits that some day she may return to the screen. 'I don't expect to,' is all she can be induced to say, 'but it is possible that I may.' The directors still send her scenarios and young authors still besiege her with manuscripts in the hope that she may tire of domestic life and return to the screen. To all of them she makes the same answer, either written or oral, that she cannot give her life to her husband and to the public too. 'When I first left the screen I thought it would be possible for me to do two pictures a year,' she explained. 'But I soon found that it could not be done. You cannot run two jobs at once, and Mr. Williams, like any normal husband, is not anxious to have me work again. Still I do keep up my interest in the pictures and am particularly interested in the strides made by historical pictures in the last few years. Such productions as 'The Sea Hawk,' 'The Hunchback of Notre Dame,' 'The White Sister,' 'Scaramouche,' 'The Covered Wagon' are of tremendous educational as well as artistic value. Mary Pickford is and always has been my favorite screen actress and I am a great admirer of Lillian Gish.' Mrs. Williams doesn't believe in woman's suffrage. She has never voted in her life. Nor does she place even the tip of her finger in her husband's business. As to the rumor circulated so many times about an heir to the Williams fortune Mrs. Williams herself denies it with a sad little smile. 'I only wish it were true. I would love nothing better, for I adore children. But my husband and I have to make up for it as best we can by helping out other people's children and giving them a start in the world. Perhaps some day we shall adopt one of our own but we have not come to that decision yet.' Mr. Harry, as the townspeople call him, easily owns half of Patterson. His lumber mills are the principal industry, his pine and cyprus forests stretch as far as the horizon, and the great estate where he and his wife live is measured in miles instead of acres. True, it fronts on the long, main street of Patterson, a few blocks above the drug store and the post office and bank, but it backs on the furthermost limits of Louisiana. The thirteen dogs are a host in themselves, running across the shady lawns and romping in the sunshine as only dogs know how. Mary Pickford, Jack Dempsey, Tino, Clip, Zelly Grandpa and Bobby vie for their mistress' affection with the dignified parrot who speaks fragments of French and Spanish. Attached to the household are five motor cars and a staff of negro servants with their families who, according to the immemorial custom of the South, need almost as much attention as children. There are only two white servants, the chauffeur and Mrs. Williams' personal maid. While the former actress does not drive any of her own cars she and her husband are both intensely interested in sports. They take trips up to Tennessee for the Fall games at Sewanee and Vanderbilt universities where they have several adopted students. The Williams house is large and old and spreading. It isn't a Colonial mansion with pillars and no one could mistake it for anything but what it is--a home built on inherited wealth, stability and tradition. Wide verandas skirt it on every side--verandas that are furnished like rooms for the Southern climate with chaise longues, divans, tea sets, writing tables, books, magazines and all the other little intimacies of a semi-tropic life. It has twenty-five rooms with a bathroom for every bedroom and 'Miss Marguerite' herself has a suite finished in pale green Venetian furniture with rose silk hangings. She has also a collection of perfumes that would make the most sophisticated flapper sigh with envy. 'Everyone brings me perfumes,' said Mrs. Williams naively. 'I think I must have nearly a thousand bottles. Friends bring me samples from all over the world,' and she proudly exhibited bottles made like tiny lions, crystal bottles from Italy, little flasks like nymphs, vials from Egypt and Persia and Southern France, all filled with the most seductive fragrance. All around the big, rambling old house are sleeping porches, for in Louisiana you sleep near a breeze when there is one, and all about it are flowers--roses, oleanders, camellias, sweet olive, night blooming jessamine, crepe myrtle which Mrs. Williams and her three negro gardeners tend with the most assiduous care. Freezes come suddenly in this part of the world, when they come at all, and there is liable to be a hurry call for blankets, burlap and excelsior with which to cover the flowers. The Williams name throughout the South represents not only wealth but inherited wealth--money that has been acquired through generations until it comes to be taken as a matter of course. Mr. and Mrs. Frank Williams, the parents of Marguerite Clark's husband, live in New Orleans and many a passing tourist has stopped to admire the dignified stone house in St. Charles avenue with its spreading velvet lawns. There are three other sons beside Mr. Harry--one of them and his wife live next door to them in Patterson. There are four grandchildren. None of the family ever 'splurge.' You never see their name in the papers except in the society column and then only in the most conservative way. The former actress was made Queen of one of the most exclusive organizations in the world, the New Orleans Carnival balls, and held her court at the Alexis ball in 1923, the first time a woman not a native of New Orleans has been accorded such an honor. But while she is a member of the very inner circle of New Orleans social life she sees very little of it, preferring to spend her time in Patterson with her dogs and flowers. Two things impress you particularly about Marguerite Clark. One is what, for lack of a better word, you might call charm, a something that you cannot put your finger on, that is not brains or beauty or breeding but a combination of all three. The other is her modesty. You might think that a woman who has reached the very top of her profession by her own efforts, and who is mistress of one of the big fortunes of the country might have due cause to be conceited. But she is as unassuming and simple and reserved as when she left her girlhood home in Cincinnati to go on the stage with DeWolf Hopper in 'Mr. Pickwick.' She admits that she has worked hard, admits that she is very lucky, that she adores her husband, that she has no regrets for giving up her career and says quite frankly that she is the happiest woman in the world. 'I know it sounds like a platitude to say so but a happy marriage is life's best gift to any woman,' is her belief. 'A career is necessarily limited. There comes a point when you can go no further and even if you have gone a long way life is empty without love. But there are no limits to happiness when you are married to the man you love. It develops every year. I don't believe that marriages are made in heaven--not even mine. It takes time and tact and thought to make a happy marriage, just as it does to make a successful career. But in the end it repays you more than the career ever can do.' Although she believes that a woman's place is in the home and not interfering with her husband's business Mrs. Williams is a great believer in education for women. The girls that she is putting through college are all being trained in careers so that they may take care of themselves. 'A good education is one of the best assets any woman can have,' she declared, 'whether she is going on the screen or in the business office or is going to stay at home with her husband. I think that training on the legitimate stage is most important. Even if you want to enter the motion picture field later on it is invaluable training towards screen work.' Like most really successful people she believes that she has been extraordinarily fortunate and that very little of it has been due to her own efforts. 'I realize that for some people to have given up their career would have been impossible,' she said. 'But, while I was endowed with a real love of the stage I was also born with a domestic streak--a tendency that makes me like to knit baby blankets and embroider handkerchiefs and fuss with flowers. And I can truthfully say that only my love for my husband would have replaced my love for my work. He has made up for me, a thousand times over, anything that I have given up.' Mr. Williams is quiet, cultivated and as devoted to his wife as she is to him. Together they have made Patterson a place of interest to the movie fans throughout the country, Patterson with its long, main street, its one drug store, its post office and moving picture house, its little wooden railway station out on the edge of the town where the Sunset Limited from San Francisco to New Orleans roars through once a day without even deigning to stop. It is just such a little town as you have looked out at from the windows of the Pullman and wondered what the train was waiting for. 'And SHE lives here all the year round,' said the conductor of the Patterson Local No. 6, in a hushed voice. 'Yes, ma'am, many's the time I've carried her and Mr. Harry to town for a football game. And when they went to Europe last year they went up on this very train to New Orleans. No, ma'am, there aren't any taxis in Patterson. You'll have to ride up on the mail truck. Here, Joe--' to a husky negro youth who pilots the U. S. mail, 'drive the lady up to Mr. Harry's.' And No. 6 with its two day coaches and wheezy engine is off across the bayous and the plantations toward Jeanerette and Broussard, all the little Louisiana towns with their old French names and the spires of their Catholic churches piercing the horizon. It seems almost like one of the fairy tales that Marguerite Clark used to play herself when the prince woke the sleeping beauty and bore her away to his palace. And as you leave them on the sunlit verandas of their big old house, Mr. and Mrs. Williams surrounded by the puppies and the flowers and the devoted negro servants and walk through the oleanders and roses, back through the bright green lawns and sleepy streets of the little town it is with the old fairy tale ending still ringing in your ears--'and so they were married and lived happily ever after.'
1925-07-09	(from Woolwine's obituary) From the date of his acceptance of the office, Dist.-Atty. Woolwine was constantly in the limelight of publicity. If he was not being attacked, he was assailing somebody else. One of the first attacks launched against him was one by an organization known as the Law Enforcement League. The league endeavored to have Dist.-Atty. Woolwine removed from office on charges of 'failure to do his duty,' but he was exonerated in 1916 amidst a scene of flying fists when his attorney, W. J. Ford, struck the opposing counsel twice on the chin.
1925-08-01	(Letter to the Editor) A few days ago I saw Douglas MacLean in 'Introduce Me' and it was one of the best pictures I ever saw. An enormous bouquet for Douglas MacLean's acting. If there were more clean, humorous pictures like 'Introduce Me,' I'd be glad... Charlotte Coleman, Bald Knob, W. Va.
1925-10-16	Indications that the reopened investigation into the murder of William Desmond Taylor, more than three years ago, had centered upon Henry Peavey, the motion picture director's negro valet, were given yesterday when District Attorney Asa W. Keyes of Los Angeles conferred here with a San Francisco detective. Detective Jack Cannon of the police automobile detail went to the Hotel St. Francis yesterday at Keyes' summons and was requested by the Los Angeles official to 'stand ready to help out.' It was learned for the first time yesterday that Cannon a year ago made a special trip to Los Angeles to furnish the authorities there with a purported confession from Peavey that he had murdered Taylor. This confession was said to have been made to another negro, Miles Proctor, with whom he lived in a San Francisco rooming house. Proctor was taken into custody on a different charge and bared to Cannon what he said was a complete story of the Taylor murder told to him by Peavey. According to Proctor, Peavey said he was retained by an Eastern capitalist to do away with Taylor and successfully negotiated the crime after worming his way into the motion picture director's employ. He said the capitalist was still sending him periodic payments. [1] Cannon rushed to Los Angeles with this information and at the behest of the southern investigators a watch was maintained at the San Francisco post office on Peavey's mail for nearly two weeks, but no letters were received here, it became known yesterday. Meanwhile Peavey went to Missouri, where he is now believed to be living.
1925-12-01	When Mabel Normand went East to appear on the stage she listed her house for rent...the agents rented it to Barbara La Marr.
1926-01-01	Come on and see the goof playing with sticks!' Carpenters and electricians gathered in one wide grin to watch a youth solemnly laying sticks on the floor of a studio stage, stepping among them with silent murmurs as though muttering incantations. The goof was Douglas MacLean...carpenters and electricians are so irreverent. As a comedian he certainly was funny to them--as funny as a Napoleon in a cuckoo hatch. 'Nuts!' they murmured and walked away. Later one of them asked MacLean what he was doing, playing jack-straws? 'Building a house,' he muttered between solemn paces to the count of one, two, three. 'Well, ain't that pretty,' said the carpenter, regarding the assemblage of sticks that might have been the beginning of a bum bird's nest. 'I got a kid at home that builds houses outa leaves on the lawn. I'll bring him over to play with you.' Doug nodded and went on in a trace. He was laying out a set and visualizing the chuckles. Just another one of those cuckoo stars. When I happened into his studio study the other day he was hunched over an architect's drawing which he had made. 'Crosses mark where bodies were found?' I presumed, studying the sketch. 'No,' said he, with the gayety of Hamlet. 'They mark the laughs.' 'You mean you lay down laughs like linoleum?' 'No,' said he. 'More like mosaic. Have to be accurate to the inch.' 'How spontaneous!' I dilated. He then proceeded to illumine my darkness by showing how you could miss a laugh by walking one step too far between the entrance and the center table where the merry maneuver was to be performed. I recalled a scene of 'The Arab' where Novarro takes a coin from the hand of a beggar just after it had been placed there by a Christian gent. It was very funny before the camera. But on the screen it seemed to me that Novarro was about two steps too far behind the donor to get the maximum of the humor. 'Timing,' said Doug. 'Laughs are like firecrackers. The fuss must be just the right length and they must be thrown just at the right time. You have to build sets to key with the action.' 'Simple as trigonometry or fourth dimension,' I observed lightly. The foregoing preamble explains why Doug MacLean is a great actor. He's such a good architect. Or, rather, a builder, for he creates the whole structure with the aid of his men. MacLean works precisely like Harold Lloyd. Perhaps he follows his plans more closely. The ordinary procedure in a studio of efficiency is as follows: Producer pays fifty thousand dollars for a story. He gives it to Joe Ox, the scenario sausage grinder, and tells him to grind out a continuity in two weeks. In the middle of the first week he finds he needs Joe on another script, so the sausage is turned over to Lizzie Muts, who puts it through in three days, after her own ideas. Meanwhile the sets are being built. Lizzie turns the weiner over to the director, who says, 'Fine,' and proceeds to re-write it muttering 'terrible!' He spends a week or so on his version of the hot dog. Ten to twelve weeks on shooting the picture. Doug, on the other hand, knows exactly what every ingredient is and where it goes before he starts his production. He reverses the practical scheme of the efficient studio by spending six weeks on the plans and four weeks on the shooting, thus economizing in the salaries of players who are not engaged until every phase of the picture has been visualized and plotted. He has that faculty which constitutes genius in the collaborative scheme of the motion picture--the ability to organize a staff and work it harmoniously as one man. That's the secret of great motion pictures. It's the secret few possess. MacLean is not an actor. He's a master builder. I mean that as a compliment. He works like an architect, a scientist, a man of sanity. Thought rather than action is his mode. His mind holds the image complete before he tries to perform it. Result: he is the greatest exponent of comedy-drama in the business. He differs from Lloyd and Chaplin in that he tells a serious story humorously. That is, he keeps within the realm of reality. He's the supreme farceur. In such independent young intellects is the hope of the motion picture. The harmony and enthusiasm of Doug MacLean's studio makes me want to delve into the picture industry. A wilder comment I cannot make, for most studios send me forth with a feeling of having escaped something worse than the lower regions. There is no pose to MacLean. He doesn't theorize of life and women and art. He talks his own stuff, and talks it so much more intelligently than the 'commercial' producer and the 'genius' star that you don't care a hoot for his ideas on other subjects. Herein you behold the plausible harmony of art and commerce. It is plausible, though it doesn't seem so until you meet with a man of applied mentality who is equipped for the medium in which he works. The Jew is considered the finest business man in the world. But here is an instance where I think a Scotchman has him licked.
1926-02-01	Upon her return from Europe, Irene Rich was honored by the Warner Brothers with a dinner dance at the Casa Lopez. She looked charming as ever, but was quite apologetic because she hadn't had time to get a new gown for the party. You see, Irene had taken her two daughters to Europe and placed them in school in Switzerland, and their stay in Paris was spent outfitting the children. So Mamma was neglected. Nevertheless, the line formed to the right of Irene's table, and it took all four Warner Brothers to fight off her prospective dancing partners. Mabel Normand in an ermine wrap looked well and happy. Natacha Rambova made her usual striking appearance in her draped turban. Clive Brook and John Roche were among the most popular dancing partners. After the dinner and some dancing, the Warner Brothers' newest opus, 'Lady Windermere's Fan,' was run off for the guests...
1926-03-15	Just where the 'Taylor case' stands today is as much a mystery as the four-year-old murder itself. Known facts concerning Keyes' trip to eastern cities and his investigation of the case are extremely interesting, however. The district attorney left Los Angeles without informing the press of his intentions. However, rumors that he had gone to New York to question Miss Minter were circulated about his office. These rumors were carried in news dispatches to New York. Upon Keyes' arrival at the Belmont hotel in that city he found 40 odd reporters waiting for him. Since that hour Keyes has been trailed constantly by newspaper men. When the district attorney left Los Angeles he, like all of his staff, together with detectives and members of the sheriff's force who had worked on the 'Taylor case' were of the opinion that Edward Sands, one-time valet for Taylor, had committed the murder. At first Keyes denied that he had gone east in connection with the case. He insisted to reporters that he was in New York to study the methods used by District Attorney J. A. Banton of that city in handling criminal cases. He stated he was to make like studies in other eastern cities. Davis, however, was credited by reporters with the statement that the Taylor case was under investigation. It later developed that Keyes had visited Miss Minter and had secured a signed statement from her. This he mailed to Acting District Attorney Buron Fitts here. Fitts, working quietly, has interrogated several persons in connection with Miss Minter's statement. Fitts, while he flatly refuses to discuss his investigation, is known to have proceeded along the following theory: 1--That a man--a paid assassin--fired the murder shot. 2--That the man was paid to do the deed by a woman, who, although not a motion picture actress herself, was deeply interested in a screen star who was in love with Taylor. That the man who fired the shot may have been Sands, the valet, who has never been seen since the afternoon following the slaying, is quite possible.
1926-03-18	Highly valuable information regarding the mysterious murder of William Desmond Taylor, motion picture director, is said to have been gathered here during last week by Chief Deputy District Attorney Buron Fitts on direct orders of District Attorney Asa Keyes. Mr. Fitts is said to have brought the case closer to its solution than it has ever been since the director was found murdered on the floor of his bungalow on South Alvarado street February 1,1922. On orders from Mr. Keyes who is now in New York, Miss Margery Berger, income tax specialist who handles a number of motion picture clients, was questioned during the week by Fitts regarding her knowledge of certain conversations had with her about Taylor. Mr. Keyes, who is working on another phase of the case in New York, admitted yesterday that he had requested Mr. Fitts to question Miss Berger regarding a link in the chain of evidence he is now building up in the case in the East. It is reported that Mr. Fitts gained information which is perhaps the most valuable yet obtained in the case. Mr. Fitts refused to discuss the matter yesterday, saying that he could not disclose any details of the investigation. An investigator from the District Attorney's office and a shorthand reporter visited Miss Berger and took her statement at length. Efforts are now being made to corroborate this statement through numerous other witnesses. 'I have nothing to tell about the murder of William Desmond Taylor,' said Miss Berger. 'I knew Mr. Taylor during his lifetime and made out his income tax reports for him. I also knew several other people in the industry. 'I have never made any statement regarding the Taylor murder except shortly after it happened, and I haven't had an attorney. I've been my own attorney.' In New York it was learned that Keyes had also made considerable checks to locate Edward F. Sands, the former valet of Taylor, who was at one time suspected of the murder. He also questioned a well-known motion picture star. It was the result of Keyes' investigation in the East that led to the new questioning of Miss Berger. 'I cannot discuss the questioning of Miss Berger,' said Mr. Fitts. 'Mr. Keyes has the entire investigation in his hands and any information regarding that case must come from him. He will be in the East for a week or ten days yet.'
1926-03-20	Boston--After a four day investigation in this city into the unsolved murder of William Desmond Taylor, moving picture director, in Hollywood, Cal., four years ago, District Atorney Asa Keyes of Los Angeles was on his way west today with information which he said 'would shock the motion picture world and the country.' 'We have discovered new and highly important evidence that has brought us to Boston and Brookline,' said Keyes, 'but until we locate and question Edward Sands, Taylor's missing Brookline butler, I can make no further revelations. 'We came here directly from New York as the result of what we were told by Mary Miles Minter, who was at Taylor's home a few hours before the murder. 'We are very anxious to see Mabel Normand, who was with Taylor just before he died, but she left New York before we arrived. 'We have examined New York and Philadelphia witnesses and will do further investigating in Chicago and Detroit before we return to Hollywood. On the secrecy of our investigation hinges our chances of locating Sands and bringing Taylor's slayer to justice.' [2]
1926-03-21	Another Day, Another Clew The rapidly shifting locale of Dist.-Atty. Keyes' efforts to obtain clews to the slaying of William Desmond Taylor, film director, yesterday brought Syracuse, N.Y., into the mysterious case. Keyes, who has been in New York, Boston, Philadelphia and various other eastern cities, spent the day in Syracuse in consultation with detectives, but made no definite announcement other than that he intends continuing his investigations in Detroit and Chicago. The police of the New York city, however asserted that the identity of the slayer of Taylor will be announced in less than a week and that 'Syracuse detectives will aid materially in the solution.' The Los Angeles District Attorney was met at the train in Syracuse by Detective Sergeant Bamrick, who remained with him until the prosecutor left for the West late last evening. Keyes stated that information in his possession will 'shock the motion-picture world and the public.' From Boston, however, came a less veiled statement from Keyes where he announced with positiveness that the murder which for four years has been an unsolved mystery is 'about to be cleared up.' 'Investigations in Philadelphia and New York were completed before the Boston clews were investigated,' declared Keyes. 'The new and highly important developments unearthed here have placed a new aspect on the case. I can say this--the Taylor murder case will be cleared up within a fortnight. There is every chance that Taylor's slayer will be brought to justice. I cannot disclose the nature of the evidence obtained at Brookline, but it is more important than I ever dreamed of obtaining.' Word came from Chicago last night that Keyes is thought to have come to the belief that Sands is to be found in Chicago or Detroit, and that belief is bringing him to the Illinois city. Local officials of the District Attorney's office disclosed yesterday they know of no new developments in the case.
1926-03-23	Chicago--The murder of William Desmond Taylor has narrowed down to two motives--'love and drugs' and the slayer may be in the clutches of the law within a very short time, Asa Keyes, prosecuting attorney of Los Angeles, told the United Press in an interview today. 'Our trip east,' Keyes said, 'has been wonderfully successful, and if our ideas at present pan out, we'll have the solution of the crime in a very short time. 'We have learned several things that have given the case an entirely different aspect, since we went east.' Keyes and H.L. Davis, chief of the homicide department of Los Angeles county state's attorney's office, stopped over here today after an extended trip to New York, during which time they questioned Mary Miles Minter and several other persons who they thought might know something of the crime. 'Miss Minter was very nice to us about answering questions, and I am sure that she is doing all in her power to help us in solving the case,' Keyes said. 'We tried to get in touch with Mabel Normand while we were in New York, but we failed to do so. I have never yet been able to talk to Miss Normand but I want to. When told by the United Press that Miss Normand had issued a statement on the coast to the effect that she had talked to 'Keyes about ten times' about the case and had told him all she knew of it, but would gladly talk to him again, Keyes said: 'I never talked to Miss Normand about the William Desmond Taylor case in my life. But I am going to talk to her when I get back to Los Angeles. 'Either dope or love is behind the murder of Taylor,' he said. 'As yet we are not ready to make public what we know. 'We have brought the case down, little by little, to where it is and a short time ago we eliminated the 'perversion' angle which has bothered investigators since the murder. Now we know it is either dope or love.' Keyes and Davis leave here tonight for Traverse City, Mich., where the prosecutor will spend a few hours visiting with his mother. He will then return to Chicago, from where he will depart for the coast some time Thursday.
1926-03-23	Take it from Mabel Normand, she is the most willing little mystery murder witness in the world. Not only is she quite willing to be questioned, but she is about at the point where she will insist upon being interrogated. That much was learned from her yesterday when she was informed that dispatches from Detroit quoted Dist.-Atty. Keyes as saying he intended to question Mabel in regard to the death of William D. Taylor as soon as he got back to Los Angeles. Mabel sighed when she heard about the dispatch. A great weariness seemed to descend upon her. Then she spoke, as follows: 'Say, if I have to repeat this again, I'm going to set it to music to relieve the monotony. I've already committed it to memory, so here goes: I'm quite ready to be questioned by Mr. Keyes, now or at any other time. I'll tell him the same things I told Mr. Woolwine at the time of the murder, which was everything I know about the case. No one would like to see the mystery cleared up any more than I and no one will be more willing to co-operate to that extent. 'Now, please, that's all I can say--what more can I say?' declared Mabel and stretched out her arms expressively. The motion-picture star read the eastern dispatches while on her set at the Hal Roach studio. Dressed in a raggedy Cinderella costume, a character that made her famous, it served to accentuate her attitude. To be frank, Mabel says, life would be one grand, sweet song for her, so to speak, if some one wasn't always dragging out the ghost of William Desmond Taylor and parading it before her. 'Here I am just getting started in pictures again, and then they begin it all over again,' she says. 'Oh, I hope Mr. Keyes is on the right track and that they settle it for good and all this time.' Mabel is quite willing to discuss the various phases of the case as she knows them. The night of the murder-- 'I went over to his home to give him a scenario to read and he loaned me a book to read. Do I think there might have been another woman in the house all the time I was there? Oh, I don't think so! 'I never saw Sands, Taylor's secretary, but once. I know that Mr. Taylor left signed checks for Sands to fill out when he went on a trip. He must have had a lot of confidence in Sands to do that. 'But everything was so mysterious about Mr. Taylor. He was so well known, but yet so little known about him! Why I never dreamed that he had been married and had a grown daughter until it was learned after he died. And no one else seemed to know it either; at least, none of the people I knew. 'I never knew Mary Miles Minter very well. Mr. Taylor never said anything about her to me. I didn't see her when I was back East.' Taylor apparently had been in love with Miss Minter before becoming enamored with Miss Normand. Despite adroit questioning, Mabel insisted that she had no pet theory of her own as to who might have murdered Taylor and why. However, she admitted that various articles of women's clothing found in his bungalow were interesting developments in the case. Also, that the slain director was a fascinating personality, well-read, a wide traveler and extremely interesting. 'So that's that,' said Mabel, in conclusion. 'I'll be here when Mr. Keyes gets back. I'm sorry he didn't find me in New York, but I didn't make any effort to avoid him. I didn't know he was making any efforts to find me or I would have gone to him.'
1926-03-24	Chicago--Two Chicago men known from coast to coast in the film industry have been shadowed day and night for the last month by operatives of a national detective agency employed by Los Angeles authorities in connection with the mysterious murder of William Desmond Taylor, film director, who was shot to death in his Hollywood home four years ago, it was revealed tonight. Both of these men were in Hollywood at the time of the murder. Both disappeared immediately after the murder. One of them not only disappeared, but changed his name. Through information obtained by shadowing these men along the Chicago Rialto and on the North Side, plus information obtained in the motion picture world of the East, Asa Keyes, district attorney of Los Angeles, expects to solve the murder mystery. Keyes and Harold L. Davis, head of his homicide bureau, held two conferences today with First Assistant States Attorney George E. Gorman of Cook County. One of these conferences was a brief preliminary chat at the state's attorney's office. The other was a secret and prolonged consultation at night in a room in a Loop hotel. Mr. Keyes tonight made a statement covering the following chief points: 1--That Mabel Normand, film actress, while not involved in the crime itself, does possess information of such importance that she will be called before the grand jury, if necessary, and asked to answer certain questions. 2--That Mary Miles Minter, a former film actress, whose name was linked with Taylor's after the tragedy, has recently aided Keyes in his investigation. She will be further questioned when she returns to Los Angeles. She is now in New York. In addition, it was revealed, the Chicago men under surveillance are vitally important to the case, as Mr. Keyes now sees it--so important that the shadowing will be continued indefinitely. They are regarded as being 'material witnesses at least.' Neither Mr. Keyes nor Mr. Gorman would discuss the new Chicago phase of the investigation. 'Number one' of the two men under surveillance is a young man from the East, a member of a wealthy family. At the time of the murder he had been for some time a resident of Hollywood, where he was a hanger-on about the studios, occasionally holding some minor position--just enough to justify his presence. He liked the 'atmosphere' of the film colony. He was fond of the night life. He was known as a 'gay bird.' 'Number two' was a much more important factor in the industry. He was a camera man, an expert technician, one of the best in the business. The ablest directors were all eager for his services. Immediately after the murder these two men disappeared from Hollywood. The movements of 'number one' and 'number two' have not been traced as yet in every detail, but it is known they have been in Chicago and connected with the film industry here since some time in 1924. Their movements since the opening of the new investigation are known, however, to the Los Angeles authorities. Mr. Keyes stated positively he expects the complete solution of the mystery in the near future. In reply to a question as to what he believed to be the motive for the murder, he said: 'It may have been love. It may have been dope.' 'If it was drugs, Mr. Keyes,' said the questioner, 'would that mean some connection between Taylor and the narcotic trade?' 'Perhaps--perhaps,' Mr. Keyes said. Mr. Keyes and Mr. Davis in their Eastern Investigation visited New York, Boston, Washington and Detroit before coming to Chicago. The progress they have made is such, it was admitted, that grand jury action will be on the program as soon as they reach home. It was admitted tonight one result of the investigation along new lines has been the elimination of Edward F. Sands from the field of inquiry. Sands was Taylor's valet. He has long been missing, but that fact is accounted for, the Los Angeles authorities say, by difficulties in which he was involved entirely aside from the murder case.
1926-03-24	Interviewed by the United Press in New York today, Mary Miles Minter said: 'I am sorry, but I don't believe I should enter the discussion at this time. I prefer that anything concerning my recent talk with Mr. Keyes about the case come from Mr. Keyes himself. I thank you for the courtesy of inquiring.'
1926-03-25	New evidence that a woman, not a motion picture actress plotted the murder of William Desmond Taylor, film director, has come into the possession of District Attorney Asa Keyes and his chief deputy, Buron Fitts, it was learned from reliable sources here yesterday. A witness who talked to this woman following the murder has been located. Whether this woman actually committed the murder or whether a man did it at her suggestion and instigation has been the subject of the investigation of District Attorney Keyes in the East. According to information said to be in possession of Keyes, this woman actually knew of the murder long before the police officers did and was highly nervous. She talked to a friend about it. 'Mr. Keyes will have to discuss this evidence,' said Mr. Fitts yesterday, 'as it is of such importance to the case that I do not feel at liberty to talk. All the statements must come from him.' Coincident with the announcement by Keyes that he will question Mary Miles Minter again, who has been of considerable assistance to him in the case and who will come to Los Angeles for that purpose, he also stated that he will question Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, mother of Mary Miles Minter, and also Miss Mabel Normand, film comedienne, who has also offered every assistance. Mabel Normand, on the verge of hysterics, declared she was ready and willing at all times to assist the district attorney in his investigation. Chief Deputy District Attorney Buron Fitts announced last night that he had received a telegram from District Attorney Asa Keyes instructing him to give out an authorized statement as to the position of the district attorney's office with reference to Miss Normand. 'Mr. Keyes has instructed me to say that Miss Normand at no time had any connection with the Taylor murder. She was exonerated by this office after a very thorough investigation of the case and the only things she knows are of a very minor nature and are very general. She has been put in a false position through rumors and innuendoes and gossip and this is indeed very unfortunate. 'I am sure that Miss Normand has told everything she knows about the case to Mr. Woolwine, my predecessor and I have been assured that she will gladly co-operate with me in every way in the solution of the case. This is further corroborated by her return to Los Angeles. Without disclosing the evidence in this case any further it is important that this statement be made in justice and fairness to Miss Normand.' Keyes probably will leave Chicago today and is due to return to Los Angeles by April 1. At the home of Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, her daughter, sister of Mary Miles Minter, referred all questioners to Attorney G. Mott. Last night Mr. Mott said: 'I have known Mrs. Shelby and the entire family for a long time and I am sure they are all ready and willing to help in every way to clear up the Taylor murder mystery. I do not known whether Mrs. Shelby was questioned at the time of the murder, but she was always willing to be of assistance in the case. I have not talked to her recently about it, as she naturally does not want to be harassed with a matter that is now four years old. 'I cannot say at this time what her attitude will be in regard to the desire of Mr. Keyes to question her, but I am sure she will help in every way in the case.' When told that Mary Miles Minter had made a statement in New York, Mr. Mott said: 'Mary is responsible for her own statements, and anyone who places any credence in them will likewise be held responsible.'
1926-03-25	Harold L. Davis, assistant to the district attorney, refused to discuss the case today. 'Please remember that neither Mr. Keyes nor I have been quite so silly as to give out all of the so-called important information which has been attributed to us,' he said. 'After we had been east about three weeks they 'hung' a fresh investigation of the Taylor case on us. I have never admitted it. Mr. Keyes may have. Murderers are not caught with brass bands.'
1926-03-25	Two prominent Angelenos whose names hitherto had not been mentioned in connection with the case were questioned yesterday by Chief Deputy District- Attorney Fitts and gave him some new information in the investigation being made into the East by Dist.-Atty. Keyes in the murder of William Desmond Taylor, motion-picture director, in Los Angeles four years ago. The names of the two new witnesses, one a Los Angeles real-estate operator and the other an actor, were given to Fitts by Keyes, according to the former's statement. He declined to divulge their names, or the information supplied by them. [3] Yesterday Fitts received from Chicago a telegram from Keyes in which the District-Attorney denied statements attributed to him in Chicago newspapers that he had solved the case; that the slayer and accomplice were under surveillance and their arrest awaited their indictment in Los Angeles. Keyes and Davis are expected to leave Chicago today for Los Angeles, arriving here Monday when Fitts will go into conference with them and turn over to them the information he has gathered during their absence. Fitts has been carrying on the investigation locally under the direction of Keyes, he said, and when Keyes returns he will give him everything he has obtained. During the local investigation five persons have been interrogated by Fitts, three of whom were questioned in earlier investigations. 'These witnesses furnished to me certain facts which were not known before and which I feel will prove of much value,' Fitts declared. 'Mr. Keyes is handling the case and I am working under his direction. Hence I am not at liberty to disclose the nature of this new information or the source.' Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, mother of Mary Miles Minter, the film actress who was questioned by Keyes at New York, will not be called to the District Attorney's office to be questioned until Keyes' return, Fitts said. Fitts added that he knows where Mrs. Shelby is and that she can be located whenever necessary. According to dispatches received yesterday from Chicago, papers in the possession of Keyes and Davis were reported stolen from their hotel room. Davis declared later that the papers either were returned or mislaid as they now are in his possession. He was quoted as saying: 'If the papers were ever missing they have been returned and if they were I had no knowledge of it. Furthermore the papers were not vital to the Taylor case.' Davis also declared in another statement that while the investigation he and Keyes are making and which has taken them to Boston, New York and Detroit, has been marked by 'satisfactory progress,' he is unable to say whether the mystery will be solved. Keyes' telegram to Fitts was a sweeping denial of published statements to the effect he knew the identity of the murderer four weeks ago and that the purpose of the eastern trip was to obtain corroborative evidence. 'My presence in Chicago was purely for the purpose of visiting your State's Attorney and to see how he handles criminal cases and to make train connections,' Keyes was quoted in dispatches as saying. 'Chicago has no connection whatever with the Taylor investigation and we are not shadowing the so-called 'hangers-on' of the Hollywood film colony in Chicago. These reports were absolutely false.'
1926-03-25	Hollywood Woman Taylor Suspect Chicago--After four years of investigation, some phases of it accomplished within the last few days in Chicago, a mass of circumstantial evidence has been collected that soon may result in the arrest of the slayer or slayers of William Desmond Taylor, Hollywood film director. And with every addition made to the ascertained facts in the case, suspicion has been more directly focused on a woman--a woman who is well known in Hollywood, although not an actress. This woman, it now develops, was the owner of a small automatic pistol, was known to be a good shot, and is said to have made death threats against Taylor. Some of its evidence, it is said, also points toward a man known as a close friend of the woman. This woman, it is reported, had a powerful motive, the strongest yet in the case. During the long trail of evidence gathering followed by Attorney Keyes and Davis in Brooklyn, New York, Boston, Detroit and Chicago, the strange , almost inexplicable hatred of Taylor exhibited by the suspected slayer was encountered again and again, according to latest developments. The woman about whom the circle of evidence is tightening is said to have threatened to kill Taylor a short time before he was murdered. This woman also is said to have visited Taylor's home a few weeks before the slaying, carrying a revolver in her sleeve. [4] Mr. Keyes declined to say whether he expected to ask for grand jury indictments immediately on his return to Los Angeles. He implied, however, that there are some additional angles to be run down before any movement is begun towards positive legal action.
1926-03-26	Blonde Hairs Clew in Taylor Case Two strands of blonde hair were found on the body of William Desmond Taylor, film director, shortly after he was discovered murdered at his South Alvarado street home on February 1, 1922, and have been safeguarded by the district attorney's office ever since that time, it was learned yesterday. The strands of hair were found by Detective Ed King, who was placed in charge of the investigation by District Attorney Thomas Lee Woolwine at that time. They have formed the basis of the new investigation by District Attorney Asa Keyes and Chief Deputy District Attorney Buron Fitts, in the nation-wide search for the slayer, and new evidence regarding him. Coupled with the other evidence in the possession of the district attorney's office, the strands of hair seemed to indicate to the investigators that a woman may have committed the murder or been present when the fatal shot was fired. Further check along this line is now being made.
1926-03-26	District Attorney Asa Keyes' investigation of the murder of William Desmond Taylor is to be investigated. This startling development in the sensational four-year-old slaying became known today. It was learned that the 1926 grand jury had already secretly made plans to bring the district attorney before it upon his return to Los Angeles from his trip to New York, New Haven, Bridgeport, Boston, Philadelphia, Detroit, Chicago, Traverse City and Kansas City. The jury's intention of asking Keyes and his aide, Harold L. (Buddy) Davis, to explain their eastern trip, and to show the necessity of the journey, followed published statements from the two men now in Chicago in which Keyes was quoted as declaring the 'Taylor case is solved,' and attributing to Davis the declaration that 'at no time have I ever so much as admitted we have been investigating the Taylor case.' The jury's action will be in keeping with its announced policy of interesting itself in all questions of public moment. Keyes, it was learned, will not be formally called but the jury will expect him to offer a full explanation of his trip, its cost and the necessity of making the investigation. He can do this at the same time he presents his evidence upon which, he has already announced, he hopes to secure an indictment. That Keyes, upon his return, will ask the jury to return an indictment against Edward Sands, once the valet for Taylor, appears certain. It was known that Keyes had been in telephonic communication with persons friendly to him here and had so stated. Whether Keyes, on his journey east, has gathered sufficient evidence to warrant a further indictment of a woman now believed to have either hired or inspired Sands to commit the murder is not known. As far as could be learned today Keyes' evidence is of a purely circumstantial nature and is based largely upon the suspicions of an actress now in New York. Upon telegraphic orders from Keyes, Acting District Attorney Buron Fitts yesterday called before him Chauncey Eaton, chauffeur for Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, mother of Mary Miles Minter, whose love notes written to Taylor were found among his effects following the murder. The investigation now being conducted is but a continuation of the theory known to have been held by Woolwine when he was in office and at the time of the killing. However, Woolwine was convinced the evidence available would never warrant an indictment against anybody unless Sands could be taken into custody and made to 'talk.' Keyes, in Traverse City, Mich., where he had gone to visit his mother, said: 'I have talked all I am going to talk on the Taylor case and its solution. There will be nothing more said until after I return to Los Angeles and present the facts to the grand jury. We have made several important discoveries.' Davis, in Chicago, where he 'lost' the evidence in the case, only to find it again an hour later, admitted he was 'hopping mad.' It is Davis' belief that a Chicago newspaperman was responsible for the 'theft' of the evidence. The reporter, who had interviewed Keyes and Davis the night before the 'theft' wrote for his paper: 'Davis, patting a well-filled brief case which he carried under his arm, smiled and said: 'The evidence is here--and it would make interesting reading.' ' The reporter then succeeded in getting the 'interesting reading,' Davis believes. As a result of his experience, Davis today flatly refused to have anything more to do with newspaper men.
1926-03-27	Poison Death Plans Laid by Woman Startling evidence that the woman--not a motion picture actress-- suspected of plotting the murder of William Desmond Taylor, film director, told a close friend that she would never be taken alive to the district attorney's office for questioning, and inquired from a nurse what poisons she could use to end her life quickly, if necessary, has come into the possession of the district attorney's office. Bert Cohen, chief investigator for the district attorney, yesterday directed his aides to find an important witness relating to this new development in the case. Every effort is being made to locate the witness before District Attorney Keyes returns. It was learned yesterday in dispatches from New York that Mary Miles Minter in a recent statement to District Attorney Keyes asserted that she had heard threats to kill Taylor some months previous to his death. The data which former District Attorney Thomas Lee Woolwine collected during his tenure in office, including the letters of Mary Miles Minter, are not missing, as reported, according to district attorney's office detectives. But the evidence that is missing--two silken strands of blonde hair--is considered of the utmost importance. It has been stated that if the suspected murderer is ever publicly named and brought to trial the hair would be one of the foundations of the state's case. That they were a vital link in the chain of evidence was admitted by officers, as witnesses established the point that Taylor never wore a suit of clothes more than one day at a time and that his valet pressed his clothes and cleaned his suit every day. The suit he had on that day had been thoroughly cleaned the day before and it is the belief of officers that the hair belonged to the person who committed the murder. It was stated at the police station that the two strands of blonde hair which were found on Taylor's coat and which are linked with the hair of the murderer, were placed in an envelope and locked in the police safe, with instructions to keep them specially guarded. When Davis became chief of the homicide department Keyes instructed him to go to the police station and get all the documents on the case and the evidence. Davis obtained several statements and Taylor's suit of clothes, and put them in the district attorney's safe. The clothes showed that Taylor had been shot from a distance no further than one inch from his body, the bullet passing through his chest. The strands of hair were sought, but could not be located at this time. On his return to Los Angeles Keyes will interrogate several persons in connection with the evidence obtained in the East. If the evidence warrants, he will take the case before the county grand jury. At the Hall of Justice yesterday, efforts to make political capital out of Keyes' trip were scoffed at. It is in full accord with the District Attorney in his investigation, and is working harmoniously with the District Attorney's office. Members of the grand jury stated that the only investigation they will take up in connection with the Taylor murder is such evidence as Keyes may present to them regarding the murder.
1926-03-27	A new and sensational angle of the William Desmond Taylor murder case developed today when a New York newspaper printed a story that a prominent Los Angeles society woman faces indictment. According to the United Press, the New York Graphic today printed a copyrighted story about the society woman. The United Press quotes from this story as follows: 'The motive for her crime was mad jealousy, aroused when the director transferred his friendship from her to Mary Miles Minter, young and beautiful motion picture star. 'The society woman before mentioned in connection with the many investigations into the mystery was an almost daily visitor at the luxurious Hollywood home of the director until shortly before the murder.' The woman, 'not a moving picture actress,' has figured prominently in the investigation since Taylor was found dead in his bungalow, February, 1922. Whether she will be questioned again is unannounced, since Keyes has stopped talking and started traveling again. Reports credited to Investigator Eddie King, of the district attorney's office, that Mary Miles Minter's love notes and statements in the Taylor case were missing, were punctured and flattened by the investigator. 'Just an ordinary lie,' laughed King. 'No truth in it. Neither did I make any such announcement. The notes are safely in the possession of the proper authorities.' Meanwhile at the Hall of Justice, reports tenaciously held that District Attorney Keyes and Harold L. Davis, his assistant, who accompanied the official, will have to make a complete accounting for the trip which caused a national flurry over contradictory reports credited to the pair regarding the Taylor mystery. First they denied they were working on the case. Then they reported 'satisfactory progress.' Then came a hail of announcements on the case, which were climaxed when they declared the famous mystery solved. But 'Buddy' Davis, the aide, lost his suitcase, said to contain the solution, for a few hours and he became angry at newspaper men. The upshot was that Keyes and Davis both denied the whole thing and then shut up entirely. Now they're both coming straight home, more or less cloaked in secrecy. Of Keyes, near and about his own office, it was admitted that 'Ace talked too much.'
1926-03-27	Omaha--Nursing a grudge for everybody east of the Rocky Mountains, District Attorney Asa Keyes passed through here today en route to Los Angeles, where he will continue his investigation into the death of William Desmond Taylor, movie director. Keyes was especially peeved at Chicago and Chicago newspaper men. 'I'm sure glad I got out of that burg,' he said. 'It's a terrible place.'
1926-03-28	In the files of the District Attorney's office is a diary, recently discovered, which is said to contain highly valuable information regarding a woman, not a motion picture actress, suspected of plotting the murder of William Desmond Taylor, the film director. How this diary came into the possession of the District Attorney is not known. But its contents are said to reveal the movements of a certain society matron at different times before Taylor's murder, the day of the crime, and all subsequent. [6] The diary is being guarded with the utmost care, to be turned over to District Attorney Asa Keyes upon his return to Los Angeles Monday or Tuesday. The data furnished in the diary now in the possession of the District Attorney's office dovetails with other statements secretly obtained during the past two months by Keyes and his assistants. Keyes, on his return to Los Angeles, will question several persons in addition to those already seen in the case. These will include a nurse to which a woman, not an actress, is said to have inquired regarding various poisons and to whom this woman is said to have stated that she would never be taken alive. In the East Keyes announced that he will question Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, mother of Mary Miles Minter, and will ask her several questions on which she may throw some light. He is bringing back with him a statement by Mary Miles Minter. Mrs. Shelby, the mother, was located yesterday by The Examiner on a plantation several miles from Bastrop, La., where she went to settle up an estate involving the property of her mother, who died recently.
1926-03-29	While Keyes has been in the east, it was learned today, private investigation into the Taylor murder, resumed here, revealed that Sands, within three days after Taylor was slain, left San Pedro aboard ship as a steward, sailing for China. Sands, it was learned, told a woman known to police as 'Marie' that he was going to spend the remainder of his life in Havana. Before leaving he gave the woman, 'Marie,' a large sum of money without offering an explanation of where he had secured. Whether Sands has remained in Cuba since the slaying is not known. There were no developments in the case today.
1926-03-29	On board Union Pacific Los Angeles Limited (Milford, Utah)--The well- known Taylor murder mystery, after 5000 miles of travel and 500,000 words of news dispatches, is coming home to roost. It is approaching the California State line in the form of Dist.-Atty. Keyes and his chief homicide deputy, Davis, to say nothing of the brief case containing the Taylor case documents, recently made famous by its amazing theft and miraculous recovery in Chicago. Deputy Davis, custodian of the case, proudly exhibited his trust in all its cowhide glory, but when asked if the Taylor case had been solved, as reported, exclaimed, 'so's your old man.' Mr. Keyes, who was looking out of the window on the cold snow-covered hills, entered a general denial to the statements accredited to him by eastern dispatches. The 5000-mile transcontinental jaunt can be salvaged through a county expense voucher, but the half million-odd words printed on the case and attributed to him appear to be a total loss. After reading the batch of eastern stories crediting him with all sorts of things said and unsaid, Mr. Keyes consented to make a statement of facts for the Los Angeles Times. He said: 'Some of the eastern news dispatches attributed to me and Mr. Davis are so ridiculous and self-contradictory on their face that no categorical denials are necessary. I have been grossly misquoted and many statements were put in my mouth that did not emanate from me. Some of these dispatches came from cities many miles away from my presence at that time. It is unfortunate that the natural anxiety of some reporters to obtain something new on a world- famous case should go that far... 'So far as the Taylor case is concerned, from the public point of view it is one of the most spectacular and sensational mysteries in years. From a purely legal point of view, it is a case requiring the most painstaking effort and careful preparation. While in New York I interviewed Mary Miles Minter, one of the witnesses in the case, and have her statement with me. 'Some investigation regarding the whereabouts of Edward F. Sands also was necessary. These things had to be done as a legal necessity in our efforts to round out a case and put it into shape to be presented before the proper judicial bodies, should sufficient evidence eventually be obtained. All this was done with satisfactory results. 'While in Chicago no work was done on the Taylor case. No interviews were taken and no witnesses were seen. Our efforts in Chicago were along the lines of investigating the District Attorney's office for ideas to put into effect in Los Angeles. 'As to Miss Minter's statement and as to the other information gathered from witnesses, nothing at this time warrants the statement that we know the murderer of William Desmond Taylor, and at no time has any such claim been made by me or by Mr. Davis. 'In view of the extraordinary amount of publicity, most of it very unfortunate and far from the truth, I do not feel that much additional progress can be made at this time in the orderly reconstruction of the case, and unless some spontaneous occurrence changes my plans no immediate action is expected.' The theft of the Taylor case documents and all the circumstances surrounding it will be told the grand jury by Mr. Keyes, the District Attorney and Mr. Davis declared. None of the documents are missing, but the lock on the brief case was jimmied and contents taken out and examined, according to Mr. Davis. He was out to supper and left the case in the room at the hotel in Chicago. In the morning, when he discovered the loss of the documents, he at once instituted a search for them. Investigation showed that while he was away two men obtained and pass-key from the hotel clerk and entered the room. The next day Mr. Davis and Mr. Keyes learned that some of the documents were taken by the thieves to a Chicago newspaper office and examined. The case was returned while Mr. Davis was in conference with some Chicago officials. Nothing was missing. 'The most important evidence in the case was not in the bag, when it was stolen,' Mr. Davis said, as the train rolled across the Utah valley. 'By some act of providence we had transferred the important papers to another place. However, it is very unfortunate the contents of some of the papers were indirectly given publication and used as quotations from Mr. Keyes and myself.' [7] Some of the cities in which they were reported were never visited by Mr. Keyes and Mr. Davis, they said tonight. The two officials said they visited Chicago, New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Detroit and Syracuse, N.Y. When the limited train came to a stop at the Union Pacific station in the Utah capital, the two Los Angeles officials were met by newspaper men and shown the clippings of stories published on the Taylor case since their trip east. Five thick envelopes, containing dozens of front-page stories with glaring headlines, and attributing all sorts of interesting but conflicting statements to Mr. Keyes and Mr. Davis, were among the exhibits. Both immediately and heatedly denied that they had said most of the things credited to them.
1926-03-30	Dist.-Atty. Keyes and Harold L. Davis, his chief homicide deputy, arrived in Los Angeles yesterday afternoon, after an extended trip through eastern cities and considerable publicity over the reported solution of the William Desmond Taylor murder case. A small army of newspaper reporters and photographers met the two officials on their arrival at the Central Station. There was a clicking of cameras and some milling around, but nothing new was added to the facts already known in the investigation. The murder investigation activity, if any, in the news few months will be directed toward reassembling and co-ordinating material at hand, Mr. Keyes and Mr. Davis said. A study of the transcript of the statement made to them in New York by Mary Miles Minter, Taylor's former sweetheart, will be made by Mr. Keyes and Mr. Davis. They also plan to check over the known facts in the murder case to see how much credence is to be placed in the story of a former convict, given them in a New York State city, during their eastern visit. This story is a reputed 'second-handed' confession of a man who says that while he was serving a term in an eastern prison a fellow convict told him that he and another man had killed Taylor. The man is said to be a narcotic peddler. His motive was described as an old grudge against Taylor, grown from a trifling episode years ago. The description of the self-asserted murderer, as given by the convict, is said to answer in a general way the man seen leaving the Taylor home immediately after the shooting in February, 1922.
1926-03-31	Louisiana justice disappointed Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, mother of Mary Miles Minter, yesterday. It prevented her from obtaining the whole of an estate of gas lands reputed to be worth $1,400,000 and gave half of the estate to a niece. The estate was left by Mrs. Julia B. Miles, grandmother of Mary Miles Minter. Mrs. Miles died recently. It consisted of 1400 acres of valuable gas lands in the Monroe, La., gas belt. The will was contested by Mrs. Hazel Jordan of Mobile, Ala., who announced she was fighting for the share of her deceased mother, who was Mrs. Shelby's sister. Mrs. Shelby hastened from Los Angeles to Bastrop, La., to attend the hearing and oppose the efforts of her niece to obtain a half share in the land. A verdict by the District Court in Bastrop, county seat of Morehouse Parish, awarded Mrs. Jordan half of the estate yesterday. Mrs. Shelby left immediately for New York.
1926-06-02	A formal statement by Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, mother of Mary Miles Minter, erstwhile screen beauty, regarding her knowledge of the mysterious circumstances which led to the murder of William Desmond Taylor in 1922, rested today in the files of District Attorney Asa Keyes, the latter announced. The statement is the first ever made by Mrs. Shelby in the history of the case. Mrs. Shelby was questioned to sift the statements made by Miss Minter to Keyes in New York recently, the prosecutor said. Miss Minter's close friendship with Taylor, which she freely admitted after his death and which was confirmed by a long series of love letters between the couple, filed as evidence in the case, was discussed by Keyes and Mrs. Shelby. Mrs. Shelby's statement will be kept confidential, Keyes said. He also declared himself satisfied with its contents.
1926-08-01	Douglas MacLean has been elected president of the Masquers Club, which is a very exclusive Hollywood organization made up of actors, writers and directors of unusual talent and ability. It has been called the 'Lambs of Hollywood' and is noted for its clever entertainments. Doug follows Robert Edeson into the president's chair.
1926-09-01	To reminisce of Maude Adams is to conjure up the picture of the most gentle lady I have every known. Beloved--almost worshipped--by those who know her, she holds a unique place in the history of the stage. Insofar as I know, she is without an enemy and she has never failed to win the love and respect of even the most casual acquaintances. It was a medieval sword that really led to my first meeting with Miss Adams--a meeting which resulted in my initial stage engagement. I was a student at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts. At the conclusion of my senior term, my class, following a custom as old as the Academy, prepared to present its graduating play. We chose 'The Isle of Dreams' and I was cast for the youthful lover of this colorful romance. The prospect of facing a theater full of people for the first time clad in the doublet and hose of the play's period and wearing the wig and sword which the role demanded was an alarming one. Since I couldn't change the costume, I decided to familiarize myself with it as much as possible. Everyone in the cast thought I was crazy when I appeared at the first rehearsal clad in full costume--including the sword. But I wore every item of the costume at every rehearsal. The inevitable happened; I ceased to be self-conscious about my exposed legs. And best of all, I learned to handle that confounded sword so that it never once tripped me, never got in the way when I sat down and never banged into the knees of the other players. The Academy's productions are always well attended by the theatrical profession and there were dozens of stage notables in the audience when the curtain rose on our 'Isle of Dreams.' Maude Adams was one of this group, although with the modesty which has always been one of her outstanding characteristics, she remained almost unrecognized even in a theater crowded with people who knew her. So I was totally unprepared for the message which I received after the final curtain fell. It was from Miss Adams' manager and conveyed an invitation to meet her following her own professional appearance that evening. It is difficult to describe a first meeting with Maude Adams without sounding mawkish or foolishly sentimental. But that same rare quality that never failed to bring a roar of assenting response to her Peter Pan query, 'Do you believe in fairies?' always worked its charm in personal meetings. In two minutes after I had been introduced by her manager I was her devoted slave. Miss Adams explained at that first meeting that she was planning to go on tour in the near future in 'The Legend of Leonore' and that she wanted to use a one act play called 'Rosaline,' written for her by Sir James M. Barrie, as a curtain raiser. There was a part in 'Rosalind' that she thought I might play. Before I left that night it was agreed that I should have a chance at it and also play a minor role in 'The Legend.' Rehearsals of 'Rosalind' began before the completion of Miss Adams' metropolitan engagement. There were only three characters in this charming little play of Barrie's; Miss Adams, in the role of an actress who masquerades as her own mother, an elder housekeeper and my role of the boy who loved the actress. It was in rehearsing 'Rosalind' that I really learned to appreciate the true gentleness that is Maude Adams'. She gave unstintingly of her own invaluable experience and advice. And she insisted that we--the character actress and I--should have every bit of credit--every chance for applause-- that our roles afford us. When we started on a tour that carried us through most of the Eastern states I discovered another significant and typical fact; almost every member of the company had been one or more seasons with Miss Adams and many of them had refused more lucrative or important roles in order to remain with her! There was one veteran who was playing his eighteenth consecutive season with her and there were many who could boast of five or more years in Miss Adams' company. As the tour progressed I learned to understand why these people served with such devotion. It was because they loved Miss Adams and she loved them. From call boy to leading man, they worshipped her and worshipping they give unstintingly of their best. Much has been said and written about Miss Adams' avoidance of the professional spotlight of publicity. There is a legend that she was never interviewed by the press and it is certain that she sought to remain always in the background outside the theater. I have heard people who did not know her hazard the guess that this modesty was assumed for professional reasons; that it made her 'different' from the other stars of the theatrical world and thereby attracted more attention than hundreds of newspaper interviews and acres of advertising space might have done. That it did attract attention is true. But the motives which animate Miss Adams today to stay out of the public eye are the same that governed her in her active days in the theater. An innate shyness and a very genuine modesty were and are the real reasons as anyone who knows her will testify. It was this sensitiveness that used to prompt her to dress in the utmost simplicity, wear an heavy veil when traveling and remain discreetly in the background whenever possible. The only times that I ever knew her to relinquish her incognito were when some of her beloved company needed her assistance--then the Maude Adams that never failed to change enemies into friends stepped into the breach. The result was invariably the same--the gentle lady swept all opposition before her; overcoming that which made all of us who knew her labor for her, love her and revere her.
1926-10-01	I am afraid I spoiled what would have been one of the most romantic proposals in history. You see Douglas and I were romantic youngsters when it happened. Our flare for romance had led us both to the American Academy of Dramatic Arts. That is where we met and fell in love. We both knew we were in love, but Douglas did not actually ask me to be his wife until he had completed his first season as a professional, playing a lover opposite Maude Adams. I think he planned to propose according to all of the best rules of the theater. But when he started I broke up the show by saying 'Yes!' and falling on his neck before he had half finished. At that, I will always insist that it was his most perfect dramatic performance.
1926-11-01	[from an interview with Douglas MacLean]...'Make your audience feel superior to you,' continued Doug, dropping the famous grin for a moment as he purled forth priceless words of picture wisdom, 'but don't let them get derisive. Make them feel a bit superior to the characters in the story, but don't let them feel superior to the picture. Don't let them know it is a picture. Make it a bit of human drama--or humor--that is going on before their eyes...I don't try to make my pictures comic. I try to make them entertaining.'
1927-01-15	New York, Jan. 14 -- Universal Service and the Chicago Herald and Examiner herewith present Charlie Chaplin's own amazing story of his marital difficulties. The world-famous comedian related the story to this writer today as he was speeding to New York from Chicago on the Twentieth Century Limited. It took six hours in its recital. Exhausted at the conclusion, the wearied-eyed comedian heaved a deep sigh and in a weak voice exclaimed: 'I had intended not to talk about my case until I filed a cross-bill to my wife's suit for divorce, but I can no longer restrain my pent-up feelings, and I will tell you everything.' Just as his moving pictures are tinged with pathos, so did Chaplin's remarkable tale contain both the familiar comic and tragic elements. Flashing eyes, lowering brow, banging fist--and every now and then the famous smile--punctuated the story. Chaplin was utterly frank. He realized, he explained, that he is tremendously handicapped in his battle to maintain his reputation by the fact that he is fighting a woman who bore him two babies. He feels, however, that judgment of him should be made after both sides of the story are told. Curled up in a seat in his drawing room, smoking cigaret after cigaret, he unfolded the story which he says he some day intends putting on the screen, himself enacting the part he is playing in real life. 'I know,' he stated, 'that I will be vindicated by any judge or jury that gives me a fair hearing. I have a sad story to tell, and I hope the public will believe it. 'I find myself in this unfortunate predicament because I am a victim of a dastardly plot, not only to besmirch my character, but also to deprive me of the fruit of my life's work. 'My wife's mother is responsible for my misfortune. She forced me to marry her daughter; she caused the separation, and now she wants me to give her daughter nearly everything I possess. She will stop at nothing to attain her purpose. 'Lita, my wife, was only 15 years old when I selected her as my leading lady in a picture I was making. She seemed to worship me. Her mother often came to me and said: 'Mr. Chaplin, my daughter adores you; please be nice to her.' Well, I fell in love. 'We often went to parties and took drives out in the country. At that time Lita was wonderful.. She was so different from many of the flappers of today. She did not smoke or drink. 'She told me I was everything to her. I was in a very Heaven [sic]. Shortly after that we were married. I shall never forget that day. The ceremony took place in a little hamlet in Mexico. It was performed in a rude cabin, the home of the Mayor. The sun was just coming up over the desert; there was a heavy mist. Always I have had an eye for the dramatic, and I realized that here was drama in the nth degree. 'Just as the magistrate, speaking in Spanish, little of which I understood, was pronouncing us man and wife, a ray of sunlight penetrated through a tiny window which was crossed by four wooden bars. The shadow of the cross was thrown full on my breast and I gasped, wondering at its significance. 'After the ceremony we went out into the sea--the illimitable sea--in a rowboat. I was exhausted by the ordeal I had gone through. Later, we returned to Los Angeles. 'We got along splendidly--Lita and I--for a while. Then one day she told me she did not love me. 'She said she did not love me when she married me. I begged her to retract her statement. I was so blinded in my infatuation that I was trying to convince myself she did not mean what she had said. 'Well, the baby was born, and I thought that would make her attitude change. She was lovely to me for a while. Then she became cold again. Later again, she would nestle up to me and purr, and tell me she was so sorry she had mistreated me. 'Our second baby was born. I adored both of the babies. I have always wanted children. Not long after the baby came, I noticed a most radical change in Lita's behavior. She started to smoke and to drink. She went to wild parties. Reports came to me about her conduct. I begged her, for the babies' sake and my reputation, to conduct herself in a manner befitting her name. 'Then again she told me she did not love me. With tears in my eyes I begged her to tell me the reason. She did not reply. 'Soon I got the biggest shock of my life when friends told me Lita was circulating infamous slanders on my character. These reports were so amazing that I suffered a nervous breakdown. I demanded an explanation. She meekly answered she had not meant to harm me. She added she was sorry. 'Then came the most terrific wallop of all. I had engaged Merna Kennedy, a sweet young girl, to play opposite me in 'The Circus.' The picture I have half completed. Merna and Lita were inseparable companions. She often visited at our home. 'One night Lita, Merna and myself were in the kitchen making sandwiches. The servants had retired. I was standing across the table from Merna, cutting the bread, when Lita left the room, explaining she would return immediately. 'Her departure struck me as strange at the time, because Lita had never before gone into a room in my home alone. She had a fear complex which is still inexplicable. She returned in five minutes. 'Merna left a few minutes later. The door had hardly closed on her when Lita turned on me and exclaimed: 'Well, I caught you that time--I saw you 'necking' Merna. You thought I had gone upstairs, but I remained outside the door and saw it all.' 'I was dumbfounded--I reeled. ''For God's sake, Lita! How could you make such an infamous statement?' I cried. 'She insisted she had seen me with my arms around Merna's neck. ''Lita!' I screamed. 'Will you swear that what you are saying is the truth? I will give you an oath that you dare not take. ''Swear that you hope our darling babies will die before the week is out, if you are not telling the truth.' 'You could have killed me when she calmly repeated the oath. 'Even after that I tried to win her back. I failed. Then I offered her a divorce. Her mother entered the negotiations. Their demands were so exorbitant that I refused to consider them. 'You can't understand my anguish. I would pace up and down my room, stand in front of the mirror, shake my finger at my image and exclaim: 'Charlie, you must find a way to make her love you. Think of the babies!' 'All my pleas were in vain. 'Not only did she scorn my love, but she boasted of the fact in public. Friends told me she was in the habit of declaring before her associates: 'Charlie is a genius, but I know how to handle him.' 'I learned she had again been making defamatory remarks against me in public. I reproached her as gently as possible. ''Lita,' I would say to her, 'even if you do not love me, please, for God's sake, do not slander me. Why do you insist on circulating these damnable stories?' 'She would only stare at the ceiling and promise never to do it again. 'Little did I then realize that that was all part of the scheme to force me to terms. 'At last I could endure the torture no longer. I suddenly awakened to the fact that Charlie Chaplin was being used as a fool. I called Lita in my room one night and told her that I would give her a divorce. I offered her $300,000 in cash and $100,000 for each of the babies. I insisted on keeping the babies. I suggested the easiest way out of the difficulty--a trip to Paris and a decree there. 'I asked her to await the completion of 'The Circus.' I had very little available cash. I pointed out I would have plenty after the picture was marketed. Lita accepted the proposition. 'She agreed to take a trip to Hawaii to wait until the picture was finished. There were tears in her eyes when I said good-by at the boat. 'She returned from Hawaii in two weeks, just as I was getting in some real work on my picture. The very first day she was back she bought $8000 worth of clothes in one shop and $600 worth of shoes in another. 'When I remonstrated with her for her extravagance, she told me I had no occasion for complaint. She said I had spent $50,000 in one trip to New York. That, of course, is absurd. 'A few days later, Lita asked me for permission to 'throw a little party' at the house. She had been befriended by a baron and baroness on the boat returning from Hawaii. I consented. Later I learned she had entertained the party that same night at the Ambassador at dinner. There were nineteen guests. 'Well, they all came to the house later, and you know that I made her take them all out when they started up the Victrola, piano playing and organ at the same time. Lita was incensed and insulted me. 'She did not return, and I have not seen her since. The next day her mother and attorneys notified me they were going to sue me and demanded a settlement of $1,000,000. I replied that I would give Lita $500,000 and $100,000 for custody of one baby. 'I allowed them to examine my books. They learned I had very little cash. I had invested $900,000 in making my last picture, 'The Gold Rush.' It brought in $2,500,000. Out of that I had to pay the cost of a picture that was shelved. That picture featured Edna Purviance. She is still on my payroll for $250 a week. ''The Circus' has cost $900,000 to date, and I don't know when it will be finished. After all obligations were settled, I had around $135,000 cash left when Lita's attorney's demanded a million. Besides, I have earned most of the money I have--which is closer to three million than the sixteen million they claim I have--before I ever met Lita. 'The negotiations continued for six weeks. Then they sued. Just before I left Los Angeles they had cut their demand to $525,000. I refused to give more than $400,000. 'I am innocent of all the charges Lita has brought against me, and I know I will be vindicated.'
1927-03-16	...A curious thing happened during Mary's last trip West [in 1925]. Her sister, Margaret, was engaged to be married. Mary knew she was engaged. She had heard so from an outside source. But Margaret never breathed a word of it to Miss Minter. Margaret never invited her sister to the wedding, which occurred while Mary was living under the same roof. Then, one evening Mary, motivated by a warm impulse, took a diamond breastpin--one of the few pieces of jewelry she had left, and which Margaret had often admired--raced downstairs and knocked on Margaret's bedroom door. Margaret opened it, and seeing her sister, came out into the corridor. Whereupon Mary handed her the diamond barpin, told her they had not always been the friends she often desired, wished her happiness and turned to leave. Margaret had the grace to cry and Mary took her in her arms and said, 'You mustn't do that.' At this moment, Mrs. Shelby, having heard voices in the hall, opened her door and saw the two together. 'Very touching, very pretty indeed,' she commented sarcastically. Margaret jerked away from Mary and thenceforth treated her with cold aloofness as of yore. But she kept the diamond breastpin.
1928-02-01	Once there was a little girl with golden hair, blue eyes and a face that was fashioned for the camera. For the most part she was a good child; a little selfish perhaps, slightly willful and not particularly clever. She didn't have to be clever, because she was beautiful and she had a shrewd mother. But she wasn't bad or vicious or mean. For a few brief years, she had a most amazing run of luck. She received one of the highest salaries ever paid to a star. By careful publicity, she became the living symbol of innocent, happy girlhood. Her future was so bright that she was hailed as the successor of Mary Pickford herself. Then, at the height of the fairy tale, the clock struck twelve. And as strange a series of misfortunes descended upon Mary Miles Minter as ever befell a human being. And after these calamities, Mary Miles Minter faded away as completely as a discredited myth. First there was the William Desmond Taylor case--Hollywood's one classic murder. Taylor was found dead in his bungalow with a bullet through his back. In the investigation that followed, love letters, silly and pathetically girlish, were discovered written by Mary on butterfly-crested notepaper. Mary's name became inseparably linked with a particularly sordid and sinister murder. The mystery never has been solved and stalks about even now, like a restless ghost, to haunt those who were even remotely connected with it. Then Mary left her mother and brought suit against her for an accounting of the money that the mother, as Mary's guardian, controlled for her. Not a pretty spectacle--a girl suing her mother over money. Even when the case was adjusted by a reconciliation between Mary and her mother, the memory of it hung in the public mind. Other suits followed. Mary was named as the corespondent in a divorce suit. The United States government found that Mary and her mother owed money for income taxes. The movies turned a cold shoulder on Mary. The public heard that the slender child had turned into a plump young woman. Pursued by all the malevolent demons, Mary fled. How and where is Mary Miles Minter living? What becomes of a star when the gleam of it is cut off by clouds that scurry along between the eyes of earth and its stellar orbit? Perhaps the star goes on gleaming. At any rate, Mary Miles Minter goes on living. First, the place: In an unostentatious hotel in a quiet street just off the fashionable Champs Elysees in Paris. On the top floor. When I asked a hotel official to be shown to the apartment of Miss Shelby, he denied all knowledge of any such person. I assured him that no longer than an hour before I had telephoned Miss Shelby and had been invited to visit her. The official shook his head. His suspicion was by no means appeased. He retired through a door, which he closed securely behind him. After fifteen minutes he returned, summoned an attendant, whispered a long string of instructions and motioned us toward the elevator. We proceeded upward under escort. In the beginning I rather resented this escort, who insisted on keeping uncomfortably close to my elbow. Later I was grateful for his familiarity with the terrain. Never, otherwise, could I have found my way through the labyrinth of service halls, storerooms, unexpected turns and blind passages leading to a heavy gray door which gave no indication of what might go on behind it. The attendant knocked on the door. A staccato knock of dots and dashes that sounded like a signal. The whole thing struck me as being ludicrously like a scene in a mystery play. The door was opened by a slender, bird-like woman with searching eyes, straight set lips and a crown of reddish hair. The woman was Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, Mary Miles Minter's mother. Yes, Mary is living with the mother she once accused of appropriating her salary and whom she sued for approximately one million dollars of those earnings. Mary and mother are playing a sister act. Love me, love my mother. Love me, love my Mary. 'God only made one Mary,' says Mrs. Shelby. 'A girl's best bet is her mother,' says Mary. Just like the good old days, when Mary was at her crest. There are those who contend that Mary and Mother Shelby are living in a state of armed neutrality. I cannot say. There was no evidence of any hard feelings during my visit. Mary was suffering from the temper of a balky tooth. Mary's mother was full of solicitation for her daughter. Mary must partake of tea and toast even if she had to dip the toast in the tea. Mary must have an orange shawl thrown across her couch so she would not get the draught from an open window. Mary, Mary, and again, Mary! Some there are who claim remembrance of Mrs. Shelby when, as Mrs. Homer Reilly, she was the elocution teacher in the then small but vigorous town of Dallas, Texas. She taught the young folk to speak their pieces for the church festivals and the Christmas charades, it is said, and the pride of her motherhood was baby Juliet Reilly, now Mary Miles Minter. When there came a parting of the ways between little Juliet's mother and father, the elocution teacher resumed her maiden name of Shelby and Juliet Reilly became Juliet Shelby. Then Mrs. Shelby took her two little daughters to New York where, it was believed, she cherished hope of realizing stage ambitions for herself. Her interest, however, centered around little Juliet who, being a precocious youngster with an unusual doll-like face and winsome manner, soon came into demand for child parts. Juliet's success was so marked that Mrs. Shelby submerged her own ambitions in those of her daughter. Little Juliet became Mary Miles Minter, the two latter names belonging to her grandmother. What a tortuous road the elocution teacher and her daughter have traveled from Dallas, Texas, to the secluded, guarded apartment in Paris! And what does Mary look like now? No use denying that the little girl has grown up into quite a husky woman. Not even her most ardent admirers dare claim that she touches on or appertains to the fashionable silhouette. Added weight gives her a mature look, but it is not altogether unbecoming. She gives the impression of being healthy, fond of the fleshpots, but none too happy over their effect on her. The golden curls that once were to rival Mary Pickford's are now bobbed into a chic Parisian head-dress. 'Please, must you say anything about me?' Mary pleaded. 'People are not interested in me any more. They don't remember me. My name is forgotten.' 'Nonsense, Mary,' expostulated her mother. 'Well, then,' said the shorn lamb, ' I am studying. Music, mostly. No, I don't play. Not even a jewsharp. But I can hear music, and I can love it. I want to make music my friend instead of a mere passing acquaintance. 'Have you taken up philosophy?' I inquired. Philosophy is so modish. And psychology. And psychoanalysis. The refuge of the misunderstood. 'You're getting deep,' laughed Mary. 'I have philosophy only so far as I have lived it. And,' she went on, 'I haven't read a newspaper or a magazine story about myself since 1923. What's the use? One blunder, one mistake, one misfortune, and fame becomes infamy. The climb to public favor is sweet. The fall is swift. The return journey is interminable. 'Not long ago, I was named as corespondent in a divorce case. A man I had met only in a casual way. When the news reached me, I was in Italy with my mother. Investigation brought out the fact that the wife of the casual acquaintance had selected my name as being the most sensational one on which to base a divorce suit. 'I wanted to sue the wife who had taken recourse to such unfair methods in order to win her freedom, or whatever it was she hoped to win. My attorney advised me against such procedure. ''Drop it,' he said. 'Your friends know better. Folks who like to believe such things will believe what they want, anyway, no matter how much you exonerate yourself.' 'I took my attorney's advice. One blunder. One mistake. One misfortune. The fireworks forever after.' 'And if you had it to do over again? If you were just beginning your career, how would you plan it?' Mary smiled. She has taken too many wallops from life to be disturbed by a powder puff. 'I would NOT go into the movies.' Take that, you youngsters and you oldsters with young ideas. Not that Mary turns thumbs down on the movies. How can she? But, according to her own confession, she has seen ten movies, aside from those in which she appeared, in her lifetime. Two of the ten were Chaplin comedies. 'Moving pictures,' confesses Mary, 'are a wonderful art and a wonderful industry. But--not for me. 'I should have remained true to the speaking stage,' sighs Mary. 'I made my first appearance at the age of four. The play was 'Cameo Kirby' and Nat Goodwin was the star. Perhaps I will return someday, somehow. Who knows?'
1928-12-01	...'I know all the stars--they all come to see me,' Dareos went on. 'Mabel Normand, Alice and Marceline Day, Clarie Windsor, Olive Borden, Jetta Goudal, Joan Crawford...'
1929-01-01	Photoplay Reviews the Film Year ...The comedians have had a tough year. Charlie Chaplin and Harold Lloyd maintain their preeminence, but such comic figures as Buster Keaton, Harry Langdon and Doug MacLean have passed into eclipse...
1929-10-26	Echoes of the William Desmond Taylor murder case of 1922 yesterday clamored for the attention of officers in the investigation into the mysterious slaying of Earl Boruff, 41-year-old Long Beach detective, who was found dying, fatally wounded by his own revolver, on the outskirts of Long Beach early on the morning of the 18th inst. This new phase of the Boruff case was revealed in a confidential report of Long Beach police officers who made the preliminary investigation of the case, turned over yesterday to Capt. William J. Bright, chief of Sheriff Traeger's homicide investigation detail. Boruff, the report states, a few months ago confided to a friend that he knew more about the William Desmond Taylor murder case than any other person in Southern California, and would have solved it if he had not been removed from the inquiry and ordered to 'lay off.' At the time he was investigating the Taylor case, Boruff was working for the Department of Justice, according to officers. The detective further stated that should the identity of Taylor's slayers become known and the case cleared up, it would rock the nation from San Francisco to Washington, D.C. The conversation in which Boruff related these intimations occurred on or about June 5, last, according to the friend who gave the information to Long Beach officers. Investigators also have found that Boruff, about two weeks before he was killed, expressed fear for his life but never mentioned who his enemies were. At that time he borrowed a revolver and for the first time in many months carried the weapon with him at all times. When he was found dying a few feet from his coupe on East Anaheim street, his gun was lying by his side with three exploded shells in the chambers. Later investigators found the man's pocketbook beneath a bridge one mile away, and this discovery caused the suicide theory to be discarded completely.
1929-12-22	...Edward Sands, who was Taylor's valet and secretary, has been the principal suspect ever since the murder. He had disappeared shortly before the murder and was sought for stealing some of Taylor's belongings. After Taylor was killed, the search for Sands took on new intensity, but although a score of suspects were picked up, he was never found. Captain Ray Cato, chief of the police homicide squad, said yesterday that he still believed Sands was the murderer of Taylor.
1929-12-24	...Herman Cline, now retired, was chief of detectives at the time. He said: 'Richards' statement that Asa Keyes blocked the apprehension and prosecution of Taylor's murderer is ridiculous. The convict who told him this story was a dope fiend. Everything possible was done to get at the bottom of the murder and it is my belief to this day that Sands was the murderer.' Capt. E. Ray Cato, who was one of the investigators, likewise stated that all the police records point more strongly to Sands as the killer than to any other person. A similar expression was uttered by Captain Dave Adams, formerly in the detective bureau at the time of the Taylor murder and who is now a municipal court bailiff. 'I always believed Sands was the murderer,' he said. Lucien Wheeler, former chief of detectives for District Attorney Fitts, revealed that he had spent many months in an attempt to reopen the investigation. 'We reconstructed the entire mystery,' said he. 'Everything led back to the same man as the suspected slayer, Edward F. Sands.'
1929-12-24	...[Statement by Charlotte Shelby:] 'After seven years of silence, I now unsolicited give my first published statement regarding reference made to me in connection with the death of William Desmond Taylor. 'I feel in justice to myself, my name, my integrity, my rights as a citizen of the United States, that I must express my indignation at the injustice done me. 'I returned from Europe, after three and a half years spent in search of health, on November the seventeenth of this year. 'I am glad to be in Los Angeles, now that the Taylor case is reopened, as my name has been published as one of the possible suspects concerning Mr. Taylor's death. 'I have been maligned, and by innuendo, directly or indirectly, implicated in connection with the tragedy. 'There is not one single word of truth in anything that has been said concerning me with the case, nor has any public official the slightest evidence which would serve in any way to prove, or even indicate that I ever did have, or now have information which would lead to the arrest of the person responsible for Mr. Taylor's death. 'There was reference in the newspapers Saturday intimating that the district attorney's office sought to connect with the Taylor case 'a person who had left the United States.' 'If this refers to me, I am here and desirous of a full investigation and vindication of my name and to stop the circulation of insinuations that have been repeatedly made that I am one of four persons implicated. 'I have nothing to conceal. I am willing, and always have been, to talk to any authorized person from the district attorney's office, and will repeat to the district attorney what I am saying now, if he wishes to see me. 'In 1926, when my name was first connected with the case, I made requests on Asa Keyes, when he was district attorney, to issue a statement in justice to me. 'I made this request through my attorney, and it was after the greatest difficulty that Mr. Keyes consented to see me, and then upon his own conditions--that is, he would not receive me in his office, nor in any public place, nor with the knowledge of the press. 'I told him of my every action the day preceding the tragedy, and of the following day of the tragedy, and of the day following. 'I told Mr. Keyes where I had spent the evening and with whom. 'My attorney and I invited his questioning me, thereupon demanding a statement vindicating me. 'His statement was promised within three days, but I was unable to get this satisfaction. 'I now appeal as a woman of honor and integrity, one who never wronged anyone, contrary to all reports to the public, for justice and to clear my name of slander and misrepresentation. 'I am now reestablishing my home in Los Angeles. 'I feel I have a right to live peacefully and enjoy the confidence and respect of my fellow men.'
1929-12-24	...Mrs. Shelby declared in her statement that, at her request, she had made a complete statement of her connection with the case to Asa Keyes, when the latter was District Attorney. 'That statement was taken down by a reporter and took the form of an official document,' she declared last night. 'It explains my every movement at the time the murder was committed. It was taken in the presence of Attorney John Mott and Mr. Keyes and, I presume, is a matter of record in the District Attorney's office. 'Despite rumors, all my dealings with Mr. Taylor before his death were almost exclusively business. I only met him socially on one or two occasions. I discussed business with him, as he was my daughter's director. I was naturally interested in the scenarios of pictures she was to appear in and read them with Mr. Taylor. He was present on one occasion when he gave a dinner to the cast of a picture in which Miss Minter was appearing. Outside of this, I knew nothing of Mr. Taylor's private life. I did not know his friends. I have no knowledge nor any opinion as to who may have killed him. 'Although I freely gave my statement to the authorities, from time to time innuendos have appeared that I was 'implicated' in the case. I resent that and believe that the time has come to insist on my complete vindication. I waited at home all day today hoping that Mr. Fitts would call me and grant me an interview, in order that the matter may be settled for once and for all. The call did not come, but I still believe that the District Attorney will grant the justice that is due me.'
1929-12-26	In a remarkable interview, given exclusively to the LOS ANGELES EXAMINER, Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, mother of Mary Miles Minter, last night for the first time revealed hitherto unknown phases of the William Desmond Taylor murder case. From the wealth of memories so closely associated with the career of her talented daughter she brought forth details that shed a new light on the many investigations that sought to unravel the tangled threads of the murder of the film director -- a case famous the world over. 'The time for action has come. I'm not going to sit idly and be a target for base rumors and vicious innuendo. there must be some justice in this world -- even for a helpless woman.' Breaking a silence of more than seven eventful years, Mrs. Shelby, one of the dramatic and ever-interesting figures of the Taylor case, thus struck back at the endless chain of 'whispers and theories' linking her, as well as others, in the events of that baffling mystery. Of Mary Miles Minter, who was a film star under Taylor's direction, she had little to say. What here is disclosed would remain forever in her own heart, she said, were it not for the rumors, reports and insinuations that are making her life a dreadful dream. Desiring only to be left alone, Mrs. Shelby now feels that she must cut through the web of whispers and suspicions to bring to an end the repetitions of her name in connection with the case. And she wants to serve notice that every recourse of law will be brought to bear to stop unwarranted bantering of her name and to force those who have used it to come out in the open. 'I have made complete statements to the proper authorities in the past and I stand ready to do it again if it will help in a sincere and honest effort to solve the mystery of Mr. Taylor's death,' Mrs. Shelby said in the interview. 'But somewhere, somehow, this thing has got to stop. I demand it. We cannot go through life like this -- I and my daughter, Margaret. We are not hiding from anyone one anything. All we ask is to be left alone, and somebody has got to help us fight this terrible thing.' For the purpose of an earnest and legitimate investigation, Mrs. Shelby revealed for the first time to THE EXAMINER last night that -- She was not in love with William Desmond Taylor. She did not make threats against the famous director. She did not go to Taylor's bungalow at 404B South Alvarado Street at an early morning hour several weeks before the murder, armed with a revolver. She did not, shortly before the murder, purchase a gun and practice with it. 'I know that some of these things, with many vicious details added, had been whispered around,' Mrs. Shelby said. 'How most of them originated, no one knows. Some, I'm sure, were spread by a person formerly in my employ. I know that person and I know the motive. At the proper time and place I shall make known this motive, but in the meantime I am interested in just this: 'I want to find out who circulates these rumors. I want to get definite information of definite statements against me, and then I am going to take definite action to the limit of my ability and the law.' Mrs. Shelby's blue eyes lost some of their softness as she spoke. Only a few minutes before she came into the room to greet the visitor. Attired in a soft, clinging Viennese gown of golden brown, with brown suede shoes to match, she sat near the window of her charming apartment in a court that looked like a corner of some far-away nook in old Granada. Outside Christmas crowds and laden automobiles moved back and forth. Margaret Shelby Fillmore, always a close pal and companion of her mother, sat nearby. The two had but recently returned from Europe. France, Belgium, Germany, Switzerland and Italy. Paris, London, Vienna -- art museums and Florence -- and then all the crash and cruel reverberations of the old Taylor case. 'We arrived in California November 17. For more than three years we lived in Europe. You know, there are many things we do not discuss with the outside world. There are many sorrows one must always bear alone or with those who are very near and close. 'My daughter and I (to Mary Miles Minter, Mrs. Shelby never alluded as 'my daughter') traveled and saw everything that was beautiful in old Europe, but now we are back -- and to all this.' As Mrs. Shelby talked, framed against the deep window and the dazzling white walls of the courtyard, there flashed before the interviewer another occasion, almost eight years ago, when Mrs. Shelby was an actress in a drama in which Mary Miles Minter was playing the leading part. It was in the artistic living room of their home, on North Hobart boulevard, in February 1922. William Desmond Taylor, a man of mystery and romance, a leading figure in the motion picture world, was murdered in his home a few nights before. One by one several beautiful women -- names known throughout the world -- were brought into the case. And Mary Miles Minter, young, vivacious, and then at the height of her artistic career, was one of these. Mary, her face like a Greek profile of exquisite marble, sat on a couch and told of her last visit with Taylor -- in the darkened chamber of the undertaking parlors. She had gone there alone to place a beautiful dark red rose on the body of the man who was her director, friend, ideal. And Mrs. Shelby, close by, listened to the story and watched over Mary. But yesterday, as the brilliant Christmas afternoon was changing into evening, it was a different story. 'Yes, I remember that night, nearly eight years ago,' Mrs. Shelby replied, and paused. 'I want to forget it. Of Mary I shall have nothing to say. She is in good hands and can take care of herself, I'm sure. 'In those days my whole life was wrapped up in her. It was my work. Now I must fight for vindication. I've had enough of this, and I am going to ask that they put an end to the case once and for all.' Throughout the entire discussion Mrs. Shelby was careful not to express any opinion on who killed Taylor. 'Mr. Taylor is dead. My daughter Margaret and I are still alive. We must be protected and not crushed by this gossip. 'That's why,' she continued, 'the truth must be revealed, the truth must be spoken, the truth must be printed. 'Of course I have heard the dastardly whisperings about me and my connection with the case. I have heard them all -- that I was in love with Mr. Taylor, that I owned a gun and used to practice on a target a short time before the murder, that I went to Mr. Taylor's apartment early one morning searching for Mr. Taylor and threatening him with death, that I had made many other threats, and so on and on. 'Each and every one of these rumors and whisperings is ridiculous. 'Let us take them one by one and see,' she declared. 'I did have a gun.' 'It was given to me by a jeweler friend of ours in Santa Barbara, way back in 1916. That was a long time before Mr. Taylor was killed. 'We were living in Santa Barbara. I was Mary's business manager. I had to read the stories for her pictures, work on the scenarios, watch over her clothes, the cast, everything. 'We lived alone. No men folks in the household. Our friend brought the gun to the house one night. He said I must keep it. ''But I don't know how to use it. I never held one in my hand before,' I told him. ''Well, let's learn,' he replied.' Mrs. Shelby smiled. 'You know, this really bears a strange element of humor, now that I look back on it. 'We went out to some open spaces and I took this gun in my right hand. It was a pretty little thing -- had a pearl handle and all that. I pointed the gun at something or other, shut my eyes and pulled hard. The thing went 'boom' and threw my arm back. 'I did that several times in succession. That was all.' 'Still, they call it target practice.' Mrs. Shelby said she did not remember what had become of the gun. She says she has no recollection of bringing it back to Los Angeles when the household moved from Santa Barbara. 'That much for target practicing,' she declared. 'Now about that visit to Mr. Taylor's house. 'To understand it, I must take you back a few years. I must ask you to keep in mind the fact that Mary was at the height of her career, was making big pictures. We had been in New York. I negotiated new contracts. There were trips and conferences and all that. Many, many details that play no part here, except incidentally as they relate to the contacts made with a former employee for whom I sent to New York and who later figured in the visit story. 'We were back in California. Mary's contract originally called for pictures to be made in New York. One day Mr. Adolph Zukor held a conference with us. It was decided that climatic conditions were better out here on the Coast for the type of picture Mary was making. So we came out. 'Mr. Taylor was Mary's director. 'About the time of this much-discussed visit Mary bought a new car. It was a big, fast roadster, and Mary liked speed. She used to go out, tearing along the roads at 60 and 70 miles an hour. I was her mother and it worried me -- naturally. 'We were living on Fremont place. At that time of the year there was lots of fog at nights. 'One night Mary did not come home to dinner. We waited and waited. She did not call. We began to worry. 'Perhaps she went to dinner at someone's house, it was suggested to me. We tried to reassure ourselves of this, but somehow I kept worrying about getting no telephone call and about that big, fast car and the foggy roads. 'We began to call up persons at the studio. We called the cameraman and the assistant cameraman. The cameraman, a big, jolly Irishman, was a favorite of Mary's. He was married and had small children. She was fond of children and occasionally stopped at his house. The cameraman told us Mary had not been there. No one could remember seeing her leave the studio. 'We thought Mr. Taylor perhaps would know. But we did not have his phone number. No one seemed to know it. 'Then we remembered that one day Mary and her grandmother, Juliette B. Miles, went to Mr. Taylor's home for tea. 'Chauncey, our chauffeur, drove them, so we called Chauncey and asked him if he knew where Mr. Taylor lived. He said he thought he could find the place but did not know the address. 'So we started out, Chauncey, my secretary and I. 'We drove around and around. the chauffeur said he knew the neighborhood but was not certain of the exact location. Finally he remembered it. We stopped at the corner of Fourth and Alvarado streets. It was close to midnight then. 'Chauncey said he did not know which bungalow was Mr. Taylor's. There were a number of them,' Mrs. Shelby went on, making a wide sweep with her right arm. 'As I remember it, there were some on the left, some on the right and some bungalows in the back. 'I saw a light burning in a window on the right, so I rang the bell, or knocked, I don't remember which. Some one answered and I asked them if they knew where Mr. Taylor lived. They pointed to a house on the left side of the court, the last one in the back. I went there and rang the bell. The house was dark. 'Mr. Taylor's voice came from the second story window. ''Who is there?' he asked.' ''This is Mrs. Shelby, Mr. Taylor,' I answered. ''I'll be right down,' he replied and in a short time opened the door and asked me to step in. 'I entered the room, a sort of combination living and dining room. Mr. Taylor showed much interest. He, too, appeared worried over Mary's absence. Then he suggested some more persons to call. I waited while he used the telephone. 'I remember that he stepped into a sort of a telephone room -- an out of the way nook, and called. He talked to an assistant director, I think his name was Frank O'Connor, and he called several others. None had seen Mary or knew where she had gone. 'By this time we both were considerably worried. 'After some conversation, in which I mentioned my fears of an accident, I left.' ''Be sure to call me and let me know if anything had happened,' Mr. Taylor said as he bade me goodbye. I went to our car, where Charlotte Whitney, the secretary, waited for me, and we went home. 'I do not now remember the time of this visit. It was not, as has been whispered around, shortly before Mr. Taylor's murder. I did not 'storm' into the house, with a loaded revolver in hand, as has been whispered around. I did not threaten Mr. Taylor, as has been said.' Miss Minter, Mrs. Shelby said, came home some time later. 'She never told us where she had been that night. We were relieved to learn that there had been no accident and that she was well. 'But months later we learned about that trip. Frank Urson, a dear friend of the family, and an old associate from Santa Barbara days, told me that he had run across Mary, driving her big roadster at 55 miles an hour and that he took her in tow and finally sent her home. He told me he feared she would meet with an accident and warned us against her habit of speeding. 'Certainly,' Mrs. Shelby declared, 'this incident is not a hot murder mystery clue. Certainly, had there been anything sinister in that night visit, I would not have taken two witnesses me or made public inquiry for Mr. Taylor's residence. 'And yet,' Mrs. Shelby went on,' some one related this story and some one has been keeping it alive, until today it is one of the endless chains of clues and rumors that keep bobbing up on the least provocation. 'What's more,' Mrs. Shelby declared, this story, along with all sorts of others, was related to former District Attorney Asa Keyes. 'I made a complete statement to Mr. Keyes after he returned from New York. I held back nothing. Why this 'mystery' should be resurrected ever so often, is beyond me.' 'To the world in general the Taylor murder case brought thrills, mystery and the glamour of big names, but to others it brought tragedy and sorrow,' she said. There was a long pause. Perhaps the hectic days of the first Taylor case investigation were ringing through Mrs. Shelby's mind. Perhaps there came a train of thought that carried swiftly the amazing story of Mary's rise and the events that followed her famous director's unexplained murder. If Mrs. Shelby thought about the $1,000,000 suit filed by her daughter in 1926 and of her demand for accountings, for audits and for return of money earned in the films, she gave no indication of this. And if the drama of that intense recital of Mary's visit to the body of Taylor, recalled to her a few minutes before, took her back to memories tinged with the romance of her beautiful daughter, Mrs. Shelby managed to hide her emotions. Earlier in the interview some allusion was made to Mary Miles Minter's glowing account of the slain director and to the love letters and tokens, most of them unidentified, found in his apartment after the murder. 'I'm sure, Mr. Taylor was a gentleman,' Mrs. Shelby said. She hesitated a little, and then went on. 'I'm going to rip all this innuendo wide open -- there is no other way,' she went on. 'I know that there have been reports that I was in love with Mr. Taylor and that I was jealous of my daughter and also feared that Mary's career would suffer, and that I killed Taylor to preserve my love and Mary's film future. 'I am repeating these things just to show the absurdity of them. How is it possible to have such a double motive? The mere repetition of it shows the absurdity of the whole thing. Killing Mr. Taylor would have wrecked Mary's career instead of saving it. 'But aside from that, the whole thing is ridiculous -- and vicious. 'I am a woman who has always stood alone. 'I was not in love with William Desmond Taylor. I was not in love with anyone. And no one was in love with me. I never held a purely social conversation with Mr. Taylor in my life. He was always aloof, a man of mystery, polished, distant and reserved. 'In those days my tasks and interests were few. I lived, talked, planned and worked only for Mary and her pictures. 'How utterly ridiculous, how unjust and criminal, to cast accusations of such flimsy nature, merely on 'clues' of such thin stuff. A crime without a motive, or reason.' Mrs. Shelby's references to Taylor were most impersonal. In fact, she said during the interview, Taylor himself was impersonal. She came back to the night of February 1, 1922, when Taylor was shot and killed only a few minutes after the vivacious Mabel Normand, his dinner guest that night, left the bungalow of the man she, along with many others, admired. She talked of Sands -- Edward F. Sands, the butler-valet of the slain director who robbed and flaunted his employer because he knew of his checkered past. Of the incidents leading up to and following the actual slaying of 'Bill' Taylor, Mrs. Shelby said but little. She refused to express an opinion. And of Henry Peavey, the colored house boy and cook, who served dinner on the night of the murder and left just before Miss Normand, Mrs. Shelby also had little to say. 'I do not remember seeing him at the Taylor bungalow the night I called to see Mr. Taylor,' was all she said. 'But this point seems to be overlooked generally when these vicious whispers are passed about,' Mrs. Shelby added. 'The time of the murder was pretty well fixed. Mrs. Douglas MacLean, who heard the shot, saw a man leave the Taylor bungalow. Mrs. MacLean was in her own apartment, and from the front door, only a short distance away, saw this man and described him. 'Do I answer that description?' Mrs. Shelby said smilingly as she rose to her feet and held out her silk-encased arms. 'Dressed in men's clothes? But why' Why would a woman run the extra risk of being detected by wearing clothes in which she at once would become conspicuous? 'This whole affair, however, is far from a jest to us. As I have said before, I have made complete statements and stand ready to make them if needed and if they can be of any use. 'But I will not remain idle and be a target. From now on I am going to seek out those who circulate these rumors. 'I am back in California, the land I love. I am not in seclusion, as has been printed, nor am I hiding from any one or anything. There are some things that I must reserve for the future. Some of them may hold the solution to the motive for the circulation of these cruel rumors.' Mrs. Shelby rose to bid her interviewer good-by. 'You may add,' she said smilingly, 'that I will remain right here and that if I do move from this charming apartment to our own home, I will not be in seclusion or in hiding.'
1929-12-26	(excerpt from interview with Charlotte Shelby) ...Outside Christmas crowds and laden automobiles moved back and forth. Margaret Shelby Fillmore, ALWAYS A CLOSE PAL AND COMPANION of her mother, sat near by...
1930-01-07	San Francisco, Jan. 7--Henry Peavey, second missing witness in the William Desmond Taylor murder case, was found in a northern California city today by the United Press. 'I am willing to return to Los Angeles immediately and tell the grand jury all I know,' the young Negro said. 'I'll tell them more than the district attorney let me tell the first time.' 'Do you know who killed Taylor?' he was asked. 'I'll tell that to the grand jury,' he said, nervously. He had been awakened from a sound sleep. He arose and wrapped a dressing robe around himself. 'Did you not confide in Dr. Thomas Filben that ----- (a motion picture celebrity was named) killed Taylor?' 'Yes, I did.' 'Will you repeat it to the grand jury?' 'Yes.' Dr. Filbin, who befriended Peavey, is executive secretary of the California Law Enforcement League. The person accused by Peavey was the one named by Otis Hefner, another hitherto missing witness, in an exclusive statement to the United Press yesterday... 'I'd been working for Mr. Taylor as valet for eight months before he was killed,' Peavey said. 'He was my best friend. I've got his picture right here on my dresser.' The photograph took its place in a gallery of pictures of actresses, most of them in semi-nude poses. 'I went to [sic] Mr. Taylor's house about 7 o'clock in the evening that he was shot. I wanted to check out for the day. 'Before I opened the door I heard loud voices. One was a woman's. She was angry. 'I waited around for ten minutes, but the quarrel kept up. I wanted to go downtown, and I didn't know whether to open the door or not.' 'Did you recognize the woman's voice?' he was asked. 'Yes. I saw her, too, for pretty soon I got tired waiting outside and opened the door to speak to Mr. Taylor.' 'Who was she?' Peavey hesitated, nervously. His glance swept the room, decorated with table runners and handwork which Peavey made himself. 'You told Dr. Filben who she was, didn't you?' 'Yes, I did.' 'You named ----- ------ ?' He nodded his head, affirmatively. 'Was that true?' 'Yes, it was!' he cried in a high voice. 'It was all true, every word of it! I'll go down to Los Angeles and tell it all to the grand jury. I'm not afraid!' 'You didn't tell this at the coroner's inquest?' 'No. They wouldn't let me. They tried to shake the story I told them before the inquest. They threatened me. I didn't change my story, because it was true, but I left out that part about the row at Mr. Taylor's house. Then I knew they would make more trouble for me, so I left Los Angeles right away.' 'Who do you mean by 'they'?' 'The district attorney's office.' 'You told Dr. Filbin that when the district attorney was questioning you, you said repeatedly, 'Why do you pick on me? You know who killed Taylor.' Is that right?' 'Yes, it is.' Peavey's story had to be drawn by close questioning. He volunteered little. 'At what time do you think Taylor was shot?' 'Sometime between 7:10, when I finally spoke to him and left the house, and 7:30 p.m.' 'Why before 7:30?' 'His chauffeur told me afterward that he telephoned Taylor from downtown, asking any further instructions for the day, at about half-past seven, and couldn't get an answer to the phone. Then he want to Taylor's house, but it was dark [sic] and the door was locked.' 'What time was it that the chauffeur went to the house?' 'I don't remember. Not very long, I guess, because he wanted to get home himself.' 'What about this quarrel that was going on?' 'Well, it was just a row, that's all. The woman was doing most of the talking. She was mad.' 'What have you been doing since you left Los Angeles?' 'I came up to San Francisco and went to work for the Corona Typewriter company. That's where I met Dr. Filben, in the typewriter company office. He recognized my name and identified me with the Taylor case. He was nice to me, and finally when I got to know him I told him the whole story--the part they wouldn't let me tell in Los Angeles. 'Then I came to this city and got a job as an actor. I played a part in 'White Cargo.' 'I've been around here since, and that's about all.' The Negro section of the city where Peavey was found has been keeping him under cover for several days, since Dr. Filben gave his story to the United Press in San Francisco. A negro political leader was finally prevailed upon, after a number of blind leads had been followed, to assign a lieutenant to accopany the reporters to Peavey's home. He was found in a two-room apartment in the rear of a home which itself faced the street. He had as a room mate a Portuguese boy, who was not present at the interview. 'Henry likes to do fancy work,' the guide explained. 'He's got it all over his place.' He had, and upon the various runners and doilies was an assortment of powder boxes and paints. ...He speaks in a voice surprisingly high in register for his build. He is not well educated. The manager of the theater at which he plays occasional parts informed reporters that Henry's bits in 'White Cargo' had to be read to him. 'I'm innocent of any wrongdoing,' Peavey assured his interviewers. 'I've been working and earning an honest living and minding my own business. 'My conscience is clear and I'm not afraid of anybody. I'm willing to go right down to Los Angeles and tell the whole thing to the grand jury. 'They made me think, at the time Mr. Taylor was killed, that if I didn't keep my mouth shut about this quarrel and get out of Los Angeles that they might accuse me of the murder. Mr. Taylor was my close friend. I'm innocent. Now I'm ready to tell them all I know.'...
1936-06-03	The ghost of tragedy which has stalked in the wake of Mary Miles Minter's money beckoned at another victim yesterday. The attractive Mrs. Margaret Fillmore, Mary's sister, is seriously ill and is in a sanitarium under the constant care of a physician. Coming as a complete surprise, that was the announcement made in Superior Judge Emmet Wilson's court yesterday by Attorney Joseph Lewinson, who is representing Mary, Mrs. Fillmore and Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, their mother, in a civil suit to recover what they say was a large part of Mary's once fabulous film fortune. 'Mrs. Fillmore has suffered a complete nervous breakdown and will not be able to attend court or to be a witness here,' said Lewinson, when the question of the non-appearance was brought sharply to the front by Norman Sterry, attorney representing Blyth & Co., investment bankers, who are defendants in the Minter suit.
1937-02-03	Astounding demands that she be prosecuted for the sensational murder fifteen years ago, 'or be exonerated completely,' were made yesterday by Mary Miles Minter, one-time film star... 'Shadows have been cast upon by reputation,' Miss Minter declared through her attorney, Eugene H. Marcus, 'in reports of the reopening of the case. My career was blasted and my private life ruined. 'Now I demand that I either be prosecuted or exonerated. 'If the District Attorney has any evidence, he should prosecute. If not, then I should be exonerated.' She also demanded that police explain published reports that they possessed a nightgown bearing the initials 'M. M. M.,' assertedly found in the apartment of Taylor... With reference to the asserted finding of the nightgown in Taylor's apartment, Miss Minter declared: 'No such garment was found, nor was any mention made of the assertion that one had been found until 1930--nearly ten years after the murder. 'I deeply resent any such intimations, not only because they are damaging to me, but because they reflect upon Mr. Taylor's character. He was a fine and noble character--the only great love of my life.' Weeping quietly, the once glamorous beauty visited the police property room with Capt. Bert Wallis of the homicide squad to inspect clothing found in the slain director's apartment. The nightgown the police assertedly found at the time of the murder was not discovered yesterday... 'It was probably confused with a silk handkerchief bearing my initials, which I gave Mr. Taylor,' Miss Minter said... Pent up for fifteen years, the words that Mary Miles Minter has been aching to say in defense of William Desmond Taylor and herself finally came pouring from her in a torrent yesterday. 'I would give everything I possess to solve the mystery of Mr. Taylor's murder,' she declared fervently. But her least concern, she said, was the possibility that she could ever be suspected of complicity in the murder. That was too ridiculous a possibility ever to have caused her any worry, she said. What has hurt her the most was the innuendo that has surrounded discussion of the murder these many years. The former actress made this plain as she discussed at the office of her attorney, Eugene H. Marcus, the motives which impelled her to go to the offices of the District Attorney and the chief of police yesterday. 'I couldn't bear any longer the foul aspersions that have been cast on the character of Mr. Taylor,' she began. 'Mr. Taylor was a gentleman of the highest character. He was my fiance. He was the soul of honor, courtesy, consideration and good breeding. He treated me with the respect of a gentleman. He would never have permitted me to do anything indiscreet. 'And yet, for years, a mess of filthy innuendo concerning Mr. Taylor and myself has gone unchallenged. 'This very morning, so many years after the murder, I read that a nightgown with my initials on it had been found in Mr. Taylor's home. I knew that couldn't be true. The only articles of mine that could have been in that house were two small handkerchiefs I gave him. Yet there was that impossible falsehood being repeated after fifteen years. 'How much longer, I thought, must I have to bear this! 'I determined to put an end to it once and for all. Without consulting anyone, I made up my mind to go to the office of District Attorney Fitts. 'As I was on my way, I confided in a friend, who advised me that I should take my attorney with me. I called up Mr. Marcus, half fearful that he would counsel against my going, but, whatever he said, I was determined to go. And I was gratified when he agreed that I was doing a sensible thing.' Miss Minter revealed that it was on the advice of her previous attorneys that she has allowed the many rumors to go unchallenged. 'They told me it would be undignified to answer; they said it would seem as if I were desperately anxious for publicity if I were to bring up the Taylor case for discussion. There were matters of legal ethics involved. 'I suppose they were sincere. What they didn't seem to realize was that, while I was keeping my silence, the dreadful things that I so wanted to answer and refute once and for all kept cropping up periodically, and, I suppo 'There was one article in a magazine in 1930 that was an especially foul distortion of truth. [See TAYLOROLOGY 50.] It hurt me terribly, and I almost spoke then, but I was finally prevailed upon to let it go unchallenged. 'But all things must finally reach a saturation point, and that's what happened today, with me. 'I can't bear this burden of continual innuendo any longer. I can only hope now that my demand for a showdown has killed these falsehoods forever. 'I hope now it will be realized that, in spite of all innuendo, nothing has ever actually been brought to light which shows Mr. Taylor to have been anything but the gallant gentleman that he was or that casts the faintest hint of impropriety on my relation to him, that of a girl who was honorably engaged to marry him.'
1937-02-04	...'I know Sands did not kill Mr. Taylor,' Miss Minter declared, referring to Edward R. Sands, for whom a warrant charging murder [sic] is still on file. 'Maybe I can prove it. 'This time I cam going to fight. I am going to put a stop to the vicious and malicious gossip, the insinuations and misstatements. I am going to clear up certain other 'facts' and, especially, hope to be able to prove that Sands is innocent.'...
1937-02-05	...Miss Minter pointed out yesterday that she sought nothing for herself, but that she would fight to the last against any slurs on Taylor's good name. 'I am happy in retirement; I have my own friends, business interests and do not seek the limelight,' she declared, 'but I am tired of revivals of stories that insinuate that Mr. Taylor, to whom I became engaged on September 6, 1919, eighteen months before his death, was anything but an honorable, sincere friend.'....
1937-03-20	Emmett J. Flynn, film director, and his bride of three days, the former Margaret Shelby Fillmore, 36-year-old sister of Mary Miles Minter, today arranged to appear in police court at Glendale on Monday on a charge of being drunk in an automobile. Following a dispute over payment of a $25 bill for their taxicab elopement to Yuma, Flynn and his wife were arrested at the Grand Central airport last night and spent several hours in jail until released on bail. Don Rhodes, taxicab driver, who said he drove Flynn and his bride-to-be to Yuma last Wednesday, and asserted that he failed to receive his $25 fee after the ceremony, caused the arrests. Flynn and his bride, leaving their hotel at 1043 West Sixth street, went to the airport late yesterday to claim Flynn's automobile. They encountered Rhodes, who demanded the $25. He called police when the Flynns started to drive away in the car. The Flynns were arrested shortly afterward. Mrs. Flynn, fondling her Pekinese pup as she talked in a cell of the women's division of the Glendale jail, last night said: 'Mr. Flynn hired the man (Rhodes) to drive us to Yuma after we had started out in an airplane and had to come back to the airport because of bad weather. He paid $50 for hire of the car, and he paid the hotel bill for Rhodes and his wife in Yuma. After our marriage, we decided to come back by train.' Rhodes said he was promised $25 in addition to the $50 paid him. Hollywood was puzzled by the Flynn-Fillmore marriage. An 'Emmett J. Flynn,' said to be a motion picture director, was charged with desertion and non-support last Feb. 25 in a separate maintenance suit filed by Mrs. Nita Flynn. The suit stated they were married in Florida in December, 1933.
1937-04-03	Emmett Flynn, one-time ace film director, today whistled happily as he wielded a broom in Beverly Hills jail, where he is serving a 30-day sentence for probation violation. Just why he whistled, Beverly jail authorities weren't quite sure unless of course, it signified a reconciliation with his bride of less than two weeks, Mrs. Margaret Shelby Fillmore Flynn, who visited him twice in his cell yesterday, despite the fact that she recently filed annulment proceedings against him. Mrs. Flynn, the sister of Mary Miles Minter, refused to comment. But, according to jailers, her smiles, following each through-the-bars farewell were happy ones. Shortly after Flynn and his bride returned from their impromptu elopement and wedding in Yuma, March 16, last, there appeared one Mrs. Neta Baker Flynn, who announced in no uncertain language that she was still the wife of the director. So Flynnn's latest bride filed a petition for annulment. But today friends were freely predicting a reconciliation and a second marriage when Flynn has satisfied the law and the previous Mrs. Flynn.
1937-04-26	A couple of wives of Emmett J. Flynn, the rollicking film director, got together in Superior Court today, and one of them emerged from the courtroom sans the prefix, 'Mrs. Flynn.' In fact, one Mrs. Flynn helped the other Mrs. Flynn get rid of the Flynn name. The ex-Mrs. Flynn is Margaret Shelby Fillmore, sister of Mary Miles Minter, former screen star. Flynn and Mrs. Fillmore eloped to Yuma last March 19 and were married. Today in Judge Myron Westover's court, Margaret Shelby Fillmore Flynn-- now the ex-Mrs. Flynn obtained an annulment of the marriage, contending that she married the film director without knowledge that he was still the husband of Mrs. Neta Baker Flynn. Mrs. Neta Baker Flynn, helping the woman who might have been her successor, flourished the marriage license issued in Miami, Fla., when she married Flynn in 1933. 'No other woman will ever get my husband while I live, except over my dead body,' she told Judge Westover. 'I love him and am still his wife.' After obtaining the annulment Mrs. Fillmore--the ex-Mrs. Flynn--chatted amiably with Mrs. Flynn in the corridor outside of Judge Westover's court. They exchanged compliments. 'She's the most beautiful little woman I have ever known,' said Mrs. Flynn, placing her arm around Mrs. Fillmore's shoulders. 'Any time I can do anything for you, just call me.'
1937-05-06	..Miss Minter discussed the new development and the Taylor case history in detail. [7] 'I'll be glad to tell them all I know,' she said. It'll be something like this: 'There is nothing in the diaries I would not be willing to show the world, if I thought it would help in the case. Most of them were written long before the murder--by a girl going to school and working. Can you imagine there is anything there that would help? Don't you think I would have turned everything over to the police if it could have done the least possible good?' As she used the word 'murder' to refer to the death of her loved one, Miss Minter's voice broke. 'I was sitting on the sofa in my home--my sister was there, and she knows I was there that night that--that--' She was unable to finish the sentence. She referred to the night of Feb. 1, 1922, when Taylor was shot to death in his swank apartment. 'My dear precious grandmother, Julia Branch Miles, and our cook, Belle Simpson, was with us that evening, I remember,' Miss Minter continued. We knew nothing about it until the next day. Those next days were almost a blank for me. 'And mother knew nothing of it. My mother likes to talk for a long time on the telephone and that night she made several calls and talked to people for hours. My sister knew that, too.' Miss Minter told how she came back to her home last night after dining out, to find Capt. Jesse Winn, district attorney investigator, there. 'He said he'd been there since 5 o'clock,' Miss Minter said. 'My maid was frightened to death. He had searched the entire house. 'I helped him in the search--he was nice about it, although I made a mistake and called him 'Detective Winn' instead of 'Captain.' 'I wanted him to take everything he wanted, but he took only the diaries. Then he gave me the subpoena. I asked him: 'Is this another attempt to involve me or my family?' but all he said was: 'Just be down there in the morning.' 'I'll be there, and I'll tell all I known again--but I'm afraid its just another scare case that won't amount to a hill of beans.' Miss Minter said she believed the present re-opening of the case was due to an 'upheaval' by her sister. 'Margaret has been bitter against our mother, as you know,' the actress said. 'They, as well, as I have been involved in litigation of some kind for years. 'Margaret wanted to be an actress and yet I took the limelight. 'It's all come out in court, anyway, and as you remember in one case Mother had Margaret kept out of court by calling a doctor for her. 'I'm afraid this is just an upheaval.' Asked if she had any theory of her own as to who shot her fiance, Miss Minter shook her head sadly. 'What do you think I've thought about these 15 years? If I had any theory I would have taken it to the police at once. I've wracked and wracked my brains--I can't think of an enemy in the world that Mr. Taylor might have had.' Miss Minter was asked about the possibility of Edward Sands, Taylor's valet, who was charged with the murder but who was never apprehended, being involved in the crime. 'Sands?--No. He was just a fat, jolly cockney. He couldn't have done it. I just wish I knew where he was so I could tell him to come out and clear himself.'
1937-05-06	Mary Miles Minter, lovely blonde film star of other days, her mother, Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, and her sister Mrs. Margaret Fillmore, appeared before the county grand jury today in a sudden reopening of the investigation into the 15-year-old murder of William Desmond Taylor, famed screen director. ...Mrs. Fillmore, whose deposition in a civil suit against her mother set off the spark that generated the present investigation, was caustic in her comments as she prepared to answer grand jury questions. 'Since I left the sanitarium some time ago,' she snapped, 'I have resided in Los Angeles. It has not been safe for me to go to my own home at Laguna Beach. 'I'll tell the grand jury everything I know. I'm not here of my own free will. I'm here under subpena. But I'm willing to give the grand jury anything I can to help clear up this mess.' ...Veiled statements allegedly made in a deposition by Mrs. Fillmore, Miss Minter's sister, were said by District Attorney Fitts to have been the spark which touched off the newest investigation of the Taylor case. The deposition was given by Mrs. Fillmore on April 3 in connection with a civil suit which she brought against her mother, Mrs. Shelby, to recover $48,000 in cash. So pointed did Attorney Clyde Murphy, representing Mrs. Shelby, consider some of the daughter's references, that he called attention of District Attorney Fitts to the deposition. In the course of the deposition, which started the new inquiry, the following questions were answered: Q. (By Attorney Murphy) I notice that the bank records show that you and your sister entered this same box about the 22nd of August of last year? A. (By Mrs. Fillmore) I did it on purpose. I did it to give her two diaries that were so diabolical and so pathetic that they made Mary Astor's diaries look like a postscript; I didn't want Mrs. Shelby to publish them against the girl. (Much of the testimony in the deposition centers around a transaction in 1923 when Margaret claims that her mother agreed to give her all of the profits made on the sale of a tract of ground described as the Laughlin Park property. This was purchased for $36,000 and sold for $180,000.) Then Mrs. Fillmore says: A. ...but there are other obligations besides legal obligations, Mr. Murphy. Q. (By Murphy) For instance, the moral obligation I assume you refer to... A. One could call them that. Q. Was Mrs. Shelby under any legal or moral obligation to you in the year 1923 to give you $133,000? A. I wouldn't call it legal. The moral obligation would be a matter of opinion, but it was more or less standing by her against the public, protection. That could have been legal. Q. You feel that your services in that regard were reasonably worth $133,000? A. Well, if I had been in that position I think I would have paid my last cent to have shielded her. Q. Was she under accusation at that time? A. Some people said so. Q. What did you give your mother in return for that agreement? A. Do you want me to speak very frankly? Q. Yes. A. I protected her against the Taylor murder case. Q. It is your contention, is that correct, that your mother killed William Desmond Taylor? A. I don't have to answer that. Q. ...let us assume that you did render her a great many services after the agreement was made. Had you done anything before that agreement was made? A. In 1922, yes. Q. What was that? A. That was in February, 1922, all during the balance of that year and the balance of '23, and so on. Q. What was that? A. That was shielding her from the public, that was shielding her from detectives, that was shielding her from accusations, from dangerous people and continuing at work in an apartment hotel, in opening an office, and having the privilege of contacts that made other deals possible for her...'
1937-05-06	...Miss Minter said she believed the present re-opening of the case was due to an 'upheaval' by her sister. 'Margaret has been bitter against our mother, as you know,' the actress said. 'They, as well as I, have been involved in litigation of some kind for years. 'Margaret wanted to be an actress and yet I took the limelight. 'It's all come out in court, anyway, and as you remember in one case mother had Margaret kept out of court by calling a doctor for her. 'I'm afraid this is just an upheaval.'
1937-05-07	I can't live in my own home in Laguna--my mother is there.' Nervous, tears in her eyes, Margaret Fillmore made this declaration yesterday before going before the grand jury and telling what she knows of facts before and after the slaying of William Desmond Taylor. ...'I really have no enmity against my mother,' she said later. 'This is an embarrassing position. I came here because I was subpoenaed--but I intend to tell everything I know to the grand jury. 'Mother has hurt me deeply--first that psychopathic complaint, then taking that $18,750 out of the bank and keeping my home--but I am not doing this, please don't think I am, to hurt her in retribution.' Mrs. Fillmore referred to the time last August when Mrs. Shelby filed a psychopathic complaint against her, then testified at the hearing that her daughter was suffering from overindulgence in alcohol. 'Mother went to our safe deposit box, took out $18,750--all we had in the world--and then did this to me because I scolded her for doing it,' Mrs. Fillmore said at that time. Later Mrs. Fillmore filed two civil suits in Orange county--both of them still pending--one demanding return of the $18,750 and the other seeking possession of the Laguna Beach home. Entering the grand jury chambers she did not look at her mother. She was closeted there until noon--telling the story which she had promised to tell-- then a recess was taken. In the offices of Eugene U. Blalock, deputy District Attorney in charge of grand jury affairs, she collapsed at the desk and sobbed brokenly. Later she came out with the attorney--and was heard to remark, 'I told nothing but the truth.'
1937-05-07	I don't think mother ever treated Margaret unfairly.' Her blue eyes glistening, Mary Miles Minter leaned against one of the austere marble walls outside the grand jury room yesterday waiting to be called to testify and talked freely to reporters. 'You must know that my sister has deteriorated to such a degree physically in recent years that she sometimes is unable to take care of herself,' the former film star said.
1937-05-13	...The other development, revealed by District Attorney Buron Fitts and his aides, was the commencement of a detailed search for a woman, who, a year ago, attempted to supply authorities with highly important information concerning the slaying of the noted film director, but, who it was said, was rebuffed because officials 'weren't interested' in the case at the time. The woman, it was revealed, approached Capt. Jack Southard of the District Attorney's office with information that she had overhead a declaration at a dinner party, wherein one of the persons closely acquainted with Taylor at the time of his mysterious death allegedly said, in effect, 'I took care of Taylor and I'll take care of anyone else who tries to interfere with my affairs as he did.' Southard introduced the woman to a superior official, but the latter declared there was no investigation pending, and that he did not care to pursue the new lead.
1937-06-10	Like phantom characters who have left the stage forever, yet play important parts in the gripping development of a drama, are many of the central figures in the William Desmond Taylor case. They are dead--but ever present in this amazing murder mystery. Their spoken lines have echoed through the years--now to play important roles in the untangling of the steel web which heretofore has enmeshed the truth of the sensational slaying and have aided in promise of final solution of the puzzle that defied investigation for fifteen years. Mabel Normand, the whimsical Peter Pan of the silent screen; Mrs. Julia Miles, 'mama' to Margaret Fillmore and her sister, Mary Miles Minter the beautiful; Henry Peavey, Taylor's eccentric servant; District Attorneys Thomas Lee Woolwine, dashing, fiery Southerner, and his successor, Asa Keyes; Detective Sergt. Tom Ziegler; Charles Maigne, motion picture director and friend of Taylor--they are among the coterie of dead. They are gone, but the words or deeds of many of them have been carefully preserved through the years and now are vital links in a chain of evidence that authorities feel cannot be broken. In musty files and worn transcripts these links are recorded as part of the file in the present case. Most of them were taken by Woolwine in 1922. Strange were the stories told in the documents--but no stranger than the destiny that was Taylor's. Hundreds of questions filled the minds of the investigators as they pored over the yellow pages-- MOTIVE--that was one question. What part, if any, did Taylor's friendship with Mabel Normand play in the tragic ending of his life. What possible hidden knowledge did the Negro servant possess to have exhibited the fear he did? What was behind the tense moment a few weeks before his murder when a gay party he had attended with Miss Normand was punctuated by a sobbing statement from the director that was strange and pathetic? Howard Fellows, youthful chauffeur for Taylor, related to the authorities the unusual incident of the last New Year's Eve party Taylor was destined to attend at the Alexandria Hotel with Miss Normand. They had known each other for several years--had worked together-- played together--their friendship ostensibly was a happy one. Possibly it was even love. Yet, according to Fellows, as he drove Miss Normand and the director home from the celebration, the latter, in a voice tinged by a sob, leaned close to his companion, and said: 'Little girl, you are breaking my heart.' Did this outburst play any part in the tragedy, that followed? Taylor had his secret sorrows--what they were has been hidden by a veil never penetrated--he was 'never happy'--'never sad.' Again Fellows, through his statement, speaks after these many years: 'Mr. Taylor to me seemed the same way all the time--never happy; never real sad, except once. Was that way all the time.' What mystery could Henry Peavey, the loyal servant who died in an institution, have unraveled, had not his master's murder sent him into paroxysms of fear? 'I have been scared ever since my master was murdered,' Peavey scrawled on a note just before he died. On the morning of February 2, 1922, the man he served and liked was lying on the floor of his bungalow when Peavey unlocked the front door. He called neighbors. One of them was Vern Dumas, oil man--a Southerner. 'He was wringing his hands. He was rolling over like a ball,' Dumas told District Attorney Woolwine. He was scared to death and tears rolled down his cheeks. 'I really felt sorry, felt like wiping away the tears myself.' Charles Maigne, the director, told what he knew. In his business Maigne had to have a mind for detail--for the fine points that make great photoplays--to his practiced eye the death scene of his fellow director was full of intrigue. 'The thing that struck me the hardest of all, after I got over the shock of Bill's death,' he told questioners, 'was wondering how on earth Bill could have fallen the way he did. The position that Bill was in stumped me for two solid days. I couldn't figure out how he had fallen that way. If he had been sitting in his chair and had been shot, or if had been shot in the back with his back to the door, he was lying stretched out with his feet towards the door, hands by his side--' These are but a few of the characters whom death has claimed as the years rolled by while investigators grimly plodded on to the complete solution. Any of these points, authorities say, may suddenly become the vital connecting link through which disjointed, unrelated facts will suddenly assume importance. There also was Mrs. Miles, grandmother of Mary Miles Minter, star of the silent screen, whom Taylor had directed and whom the star had loved. She solaced Mary in the dark hours of grief--Mrs. Miles is dead and no known statement of hers remains.
1937-06-11	Mrs. Charlotte Shelby knows she is under investigation in the William Desmond Taylor murder case and welcomes the opportunity to face the issue. Neither defiant nor cowed, she came forward yesterday to demand immediate action by the authorities, at any cost. Weary of years of gossip and innuendo, she thinks the time has come to bring before the proper tribunals every one who has any knowledge of or connection with the 15-year-old slaying of the famous motion picture director. And, if in the interests of justice she must suffer temporarily the inconvenience of questioning and investigation, she is willing to assume the role so every vital fact may be developed, and all the 'froth and fables' with which it had become surrounded in the last decade and a half may forever be brushed away. This is what she said yesterday in a remarkable interview with The Examiner, given in the presence of her attorney, Clyde F. Murphy, here in Los Angeles. Seven years ago, speaking to this reporter, Mrs. Shelby made similar demands, but under somewhat different circumstances. [2] Since then many things transpired in her life. The fortunes of her daughters, Mary Miles Minter and Margaret Shelby Fillmore, had been all but swept away by theft and litigation. Civil suits by the dozen have come and passed. These suits involved disputes in her own family, and then, last month, came the dramatic appearance before the grand jury of her own daughter, Margaret, whose testimony laid the foundation for the present revival of the celebrated murder case. 'First of all,' said Mrs. Shelby yesterday, 'I want every one to know that I bear no malice toward anyone or resent anything my daughter Margaret or anyone else may have told the grand jury. 'Margaret is my daughter, and her welfare and future is the important thing. 'I feel that the truth, like murder, will out. I know that charges made must be proven and that only through investigation and search can facts, long forgotten or covered up, be reconstructed and made useful in an inquiry of this sort. 'Therefore I say: If the authorities want to consider me a suspect in this case, I am willing--if that will help once and for all to verify or disprove the rumors and tips and ideas that have been cluttering up this case from the very start. 'I am prepared, and will await the outcome of the grand jury investigation with interest, but without the slightest fear,' she said. And then, for the first time, Mrs. Shelby gave her views on Mary Miles Minter's love for William Desmond Taylor. 'This romantic attachment of Mr. Taylor for Mary was something I learned only after Mr. Taylor was killed. It was all news to me. So far as we were concerned, we were glad to see Mary go with Mr. Taylor. He was such a gentleman and we felt Mary was well chaperoned when out with him to dinner or the theater,' she said calmly. 'You see,' she continued, 'I would have no motive. 'Neither was I in love with Mr. Taylor. To me he was just one of Mary's directors--a fine gentleman, and that's all.' Q. 'Were you ever in Taylor's house?' A. 'Yes, once,' she replied. Mary was late in coming home. She had a new car. The family worried, Mrs. Shelby said, so she, Charlotte Whitney, the secretary, and Chauncey Eaton, the chauffeur, drove to Taylor's house. Taylor's telephone was not in the book and that was the only way to reach him. 'Mr. Taylor came to the door. I told him of my anxiety for Mary. He called the assistant director--I think it was Frank Connor, and asked him if he had seen Mary. Then he said, 'Mary should not go away like this,' and I went home. Mrs. Whitney remained in the car, as did Chauncey. 'The rest of all this stuff they are talking about now is silly,' Mrs. Shelby went on. 'I was home on the night of the murder--with Carl Stockdale. We played cards from 7 till 9. It was Carl Stockdale who called me the next morning to tell me Mr. Taylor was dead. Q. 'Did you ever own a gun, Mrs. Shelby?' 'There was only one gun in the Shelby family,' she said. 'That was given me by a man in Santa Barbara. 'Bullets were taken out of this gun, but that was two years before the murder. One night, after being scolded, Mary went to my room and locked herself in. We heard a shot. The door was locked. Chauncey and a night watchman broke it down and there, on the floor was Mary. When we saw she was not hurt, my mother, Mrs. Julia Miles, said to Chauncey: 'Take the bullets out of that gun and give them to me.' 'She took the gun and I never saw it or the bullets again.' Miss Minter, some days ago, told The Examiner a similar version of the firing of the gun. She said she was fumbling with the gun when it was discharged. [3] All the other allegations now being made by witnesses, Mrs. Shelby said, are baseless--and most of them are 'also silly.' 'Why didn't they look into all those things at the time of the murder?' she demanded. 'If the authorities had followed the real important clews, instead of chasing after persons whose names had Hollywood glamour, the case probably would have been solved long ago and all of us spared this perpetual annoyance.' Mrs. Shelby then expressed regret that Stockdale, the veteran Hollywood actor, has been mentioned in the case. 'Poor Carl, such a faithful friend and such a gentle soul,' Mrs. Shelby sighed.
1937-06-11	Remains True To Director Undying Affection for Slain Man Causes Her to Decline Many Offers of Marriage Mary Miles Minter, whose meteoric flight into film fame was cut short when a mysterious bullet snuffed out the life of William Desmond Taylor on Feb. 1, 1922, today laid bare secrets of her heart, giving details of her romance with Taylor and explaining why it was her 'last romance.' Her exclusive story, as told to an Evening Herald Express reporter while new efforts are being made to solve the Taylor murder, follows: For 15 years, Mary Miles Minter has remained true to the man she loved--to William Desmond Taylor, 'the finest, bravest, dearest, truest, most sincere man I have ever known.' Even beyond death, she has remained true. Since the mysterious and unsolved murder of the film director in 1922, the glamorous star of the silent screen has rejected numerous proposals of marriage, she revealed today; always she has chosen to remain single. 'I was engaged to Mr. Taylor,' she said. 'I loved him deeply and sincerely, and he loved me. 'We did not announce our engagement--I was waiting until the completion of my contract--but I wanted nothing more than to be his wife, to make a home for him....That is why I have never married.' Several times during the intervening years since 1922 there have been rumors that the former star was about to marry, but always the rumors faded away. Now she is living quietly at her home in Beverly Hills, rarely figuring in the news of the day, except as the Taylor mystery is periodically reopened for investigation. One of her few recent 'public appearances,' prior to the time of the current investigation, was during an accounting trial last fall before Superior Judge Emmet H. Wilson. It involved a part of her million-dollar film earnings, but today she disclosed how little the money meant to her. 'I cared nothing about the money,' she said. 'That is why I let mother handle all of my business affairs. All I was interested in was the prospect of marrying the man of my choice, of making a home for him and doing all the things a loyal wife who loved her husband would want to do. 'I was going to be married and money affairs were of no interest to me. Mr. Taylor once thought that the money I earned might interfere with our happiness, and I told him I would get rid of all my money--turn it over to the other members of my family--if it stood in the way of our marriage. 'He was a great man--the finest, bravest, truest, most sincere man I have ever known--and I was reverentially glad to be his fiancee. 'Mother, could never understand how I felt about Mr. Taylor. She really cannot understand yet just how much he meant to me. She thought perhaps, that it was only a childish infatuation. She wanted to protect me from my own impetuosity. Finally Mr. Taylor told me that mother was right, that in justice to me we should not be married until I had an opportunity to have more experience, to grow a little older and really be sure that I knew my own mind. He told me, after all, I was still a girl in my `teens while he was a mature man. 'So we agreed that we would not see each other again until the conclusion of my contract. It was then September, 1921. We agreed that the engagement was to continue, but that we should not think of marrying until I had completed all of the pictures required by the contract.' On December 23, 1921, she said she wrote the director a 'good bye' note as a sort of a bluff, hoping that its climatic effect might end the heart rending weeks of waiting and at least modify the agreement to the extent that they might see each other occasionally. But though Taylor still held to the original plan, she said he told her: 'I love you more than anything in the world. I love you with all my heart and soul.' That was the last time she saw him alive, she said, during a brief meeting of only a few minutes after she delivered the 'bluff' note. 'I knew then that it could never be `good by',' she said, 'that no matter how much or how long we were parted, we would be drawn together somehow, perhaps even beyond death.' Even beyond death! The words strangely prophetic in retrospect, offer a clue to the reason why Mary Miles Minter has not married. Still lovely and attractive, she cannot forget her hopes and dreams of a home with a big fireplace and a family. She said she always hoped that the children would be sons and that they would grow up to be 'like their father-- like the redwoods, strong and fine and substantial.' That was what she wanted and, in its essence, all she wanted. The fireplace was especially important, for it symbolized her dreams. One could sit before an open fire with one's beloved and build flaming castles of white and red in the glowing embers. She wrote impulsive love notes to Taylor and told him of her dream of a house...with a fireplace. The notes were discovered at the time of his death, but like all other things which linked her name with that of William Desmond Taylor, she said they were no cause for her to be ashamed. 'I was sorry they were found,' she said. 'But I am not sorry I wrote them. I am glad I wrote them. Through them I was speaking to my fiancee, and I WAS WRITING FROM MY HEART, JUST AS ANY OTHER GIRL IN LOVE WITH HER BETROTHED WOULD DO. 'Mr. Taylor was the finest of gentleman in every sense of the word. Nothing ever happened that could have possibly made me think otherwise and much did happen to confirm my admiration--apart from my love--for him, but I did have the right--and, if you please, the honor--of expressing my love to him in my own way, whether my very personal expressions were made public or not. 'It is unfortunate that in sifting the evidence in a case of this kind so much immaterial matter is dragged before the public gaze, regardless of the effect on the lives of innocent people. I feel it was an outrage that the letters were made public property, since they were written in 1919 when I was 17 years old, three years before his death, but I say again, I am glad they were written.' Miss Minter made it clear that she is not leading a life of futile mourning. She realizes that there is nothing to be gained by accentuating a heartache year after year. But whether in future years any other man will appear to make her forget the past, so that he may claim her hand, no one can foretell. The fifteen years which have passed since the death of William Desmond Taylor are no criterion of what the future may hold, yet Mary Miles Minter leaves no doubt that what has not happened in those years--her refusal to marry when it was evident to all her friends that there was often the opportunity--is something more than an idle gesture.
1937-06-12	Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, mother of Mary Miles Minter, told the whole story yesterday of the mysterious bullet for which Junior G-men of the district attorney's office were seeking by means of a fluoroscope in the William Desmond Taylor murder investigation. [4] While the district attorney's clue-seekers turned the fluoroscope on the walls of a former home of Mrs. Shelby, the latter admitted the missing bullet had been fired from her pearl-handled revolver and that the remaining bullets in the gun had been handed to Chauncey Eaton, her former chauffeur. Mrs. Shelby said the missing bullet, believed to have lodged in a closet wall, was fired by Miss Minter two years before the murder, apparently as a joke. A .38 caliber bullet was found on a rafter in the basement of Mrs. Shelby's former home by investigators several weeks ago, according to the district attorney's office. Eaton said he placed the remaining bullets from Mrs. Shelby's gun there after the shooting at the closet wall by Miss Minter. The bullet did not lodge in the ceiling, as the investigators assume, Mrs. Shelby declared. 'It penetrated the door jam of the closet and lodged in the back wall of the closet. The bullet hole in the wooden door jam was plainly visible for a time afterwards. I really don't remember whatever was done about it--whether a new paneling was put on or not,' Mrs. Shelby said. 'When we rushed into the room,' Mrs. Shelby said, 'Mary was lying on a rug on the floor with her hand over her face. She removed her hand, looked at us, and said, 'ha-ha'.' Witnesses to the scene, Mrs. Shelby said, were Mrs. Charlotte Whitney, her former secretary, Eaton, her chauffeur, and Mrs. Mary Miles, her mother, now dead. [5] 'My mother demanded the gun, saying, 'There'll be no more of this gun- play around this house',' Mrs. Shelby continued. 'She took the gun and handed it to Eaton, telling him to unload it. Eaton emptied five remaining shells from the little pearl-handled gun into his hand and handed the gun back to my mother. I don't know what mother did with it after that.' Mrs. Shelby 'pooh-pooed' a recent declaration of a witness of knowledge of threats made against Taylor's life. 'One night in June, two years before the murder,' the mother continued, 'Mary had not come home at a late hour. She was driving a new car, and I was worried about her. Charlotte Whitney and I decided we should look for her. Eaton knew where Taylor lived, and I ordered him to drive out there. That was the only time I was ever in Mr. Taylor's bungalow. I merely asked him if he knew the whereabouts of my daughter. He replied that he did not, and we left.' A report made to the district attorney's office by Albert E. Harris, former taxi driver, that he drove Miss Minter, weeping and hysterical, and an actor from the Ambassador Hotel to Miss Minter's home the afternoon of the Taylor Taylor was shot, and overheard scraps of conversation, was branded as 'silly, and ridiculous' by Mrs. Shelby. 'Mary was on location at the beach that day, her work requiring her to dive into the ocean all day. She had caught a bad cold, and returned from work late in the afternoon, just in time for dinner. She certainly was not galivanting around from the Ambassador to her home in a taxicab,' Mrs. Shelby said. A narcotic smuggler, Mrs. Shelby said she believes, killed Taylor. 'I believe he was slain by someone who has never been under investigation, but who wanted to remove Taylor from the path of narcotic smugglers. Mrs. Shelby said she knew that Taylor was safeguarding a prominent film actress from attempts of underworld characters to lead the actress into the drug habit. [6]
1937-08-17	William Desmond Taylor's ghost hovered over the courtroom of Superior Judge Parker Wood yesterday as a trial of a $48,750 lawsuit between a mother and daughter began. That the name of Taylor, murdered 14 years ago, will figure prominently in the case, was indicated in the questioning of jurors who were asked if they would be prejudiced against Margaret Shelby Fillmore or Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, her mother. 1. It should be developed that Mrs. Fillmore had stated her mother was involved in the Taylor murder case and in return for 'protection' paid $133,000. 2. Mrs. Shelby had been named in print as a possible suspect. 3. Mrs. Fillmore protected her mother, or appeared before the grand jury in the recent reopening of the case. Mrs. Fillmore charges in her suit that her mother, also the parent of Mary Miles Minter, famous in the days of silent pictures, wrongfully took $18,500 from a joint safety deposit box. Mrs. Shelby has denied the charges.
1937-08-18	`My Money' Says Mrs. Shelby 'My Margaret knew it was not her money. It was to be hers after my death, but I am not dead yet.' Militantly, Mrs. Charlotte Shelby thus yesterday explained her eldest daughter, Margaret Shelby Fillmore, was only a 'dummy' in the many stock transactions made in her name. And so, she reasoned, it would have been impossible for her to defraud her daughter of $48,750 as Mrs. Fillmore charges in a suit on trial before Superior Judge Parker Wood. 'Yes,' she admitted under questioning by Mrs. Fillmore's attorney, Richard Cantillon, 'I deposited large sums of money to Margaret's account and had stocks made out in her name, but she knew they were not really hers.' 'Neither of my daughters had the capacity for thrift. They had nothing of their own, except what I gave them. I set up a `Hetty Green' bank account as a basis for their future fortunes. But it was all my money.'
1937-08-18	Mary Miles Minter's famous diary, for years secreted in her mother's 'black bag,' was spirited out of the bag back into Mary's possession--by her sister. That startling statement was made by Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, mother of the once famous film actress, on the witness stand in Superior Court yesterday. 'I had kept the diary with a great many of Mary's letters in a little black bag for many years,' Mrs. Shelby told the jury in Judge Parker Wood's court where she is fighting a charge that she wrongfully removed $48,750 from a safety deposit box held jointly by her and her other daughter, Margaret Shelby Fillmore. The 'lost' diary had been hinted at on numerous occasions in connection with the investigation of the mysterious murder of William Desmond Taylor. It's now in Mary's hands, Mrs. Shelby said. 'I didn't know Margaret knew it was in the bag,' said Mrs. Shelby. 'When I closed out my safety deposit box in a Laguna Beach bank a year ago, I found that Margaret had invaded the privacy of the box and returned the letters and diary to her sister.'
1937-08-20	Taylor's Name in Fillmore Suit 'Are you afraid I'll bring up the Taylor murder case?' These were the words of Margaret Shelby Fillmore to her mother, Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, in the PSYCHOPATHIC WARD of the General Hospital, where the former was being held, according to her testimony to court yesterday. The reference to the 15 year old murder of William Desmond Taylor was made at the trial of Mrs. Fillmore's $48,750 suit against her mother. 'I asked her why she had me committed,' Mrs. Fillmore told Judge Parker Wood. 'I said, `Are you afraid I'll bring up the Taylor case?'' 'Mother exclaimed `For God's sake, don't go into that.'' Mrs. Fillmore said she was incarcerated shortly after discovering that nearly $50,000 belonging to her had been removed from a joint safety deposit box she held with Mrs. Shelby. 'I told her I was well and asked her what she had done with my money,' Mrs. Fillmore testified. 'In her gushing manner she said, `My child, don't oppose me in this; I just want you to get well.'' Mrs. Fillmore said that in 1925, when her mother went to Europe, with a bag full of bonds, some of which belonged to her that 'men have been very bad for our family,' and that her mother resented her marrying. 'I DON'T TRUST MEN. I don't trust your husband and that is why I want to take your bonds with me,' Mrs. Fillmore quoted her mother as having said. In direct contradiction to her mother's testimony, Mrs. Fillmore testified she was not dependent upon her mother and that since she had been a mere child she had been neglected in favor of Mary Miles Minter, the once noted film actress, her sister.
1937-08-20	...Mrs. Fillmore testified in Superior Judge Parker Wood's court that her mother neglected her in her childhood, lavishing attention only on Mary Miles Minter, her sister and former film star. She referred to her mother throughout the testimony as 'Mrs. Shelby.' Mrs. Fillmore, a former actress, said she had lost all her 'love, respect and admiration' for Miss Minter. Reference to the Taylor murder mystery came when Mrs. Fillmore was relating circumstances surrounding her detention on an insanity complaint brought by her mother. 'Mrs. Shelby came to see me at the ward where I had been placed and began gushing over me. I asked her what she had done with my money and she said she was taking care of it. I told her she was too extravagant, and that she was not going to do to me what she had done to Mary (Miss Minter). 'I said, 'Are your that frightened of the Taylor case? I am not going into that.' ' 'Mother replied, 'For God's sake don't go into that.' I told her then, 'I cannot call you mother any more.' '
1937-08-24	...The Taylor case was injected into the testimony through a deposition made by Mrs. Fillmore some time ago in which she stated she had protected her mother during the investigation which followed Taylor's slaying. 'Did you have any damaging information which may have implicated your mother?' Murphy asked Mrs. Fillmore. 'I protected Mrs. Shelby from reporters and others to keep her from making those wild and sensational statements,' Mrs. Fillmore replied. At another point in the proceedings she said: 'Mrs. Shelby would say impulsive things incriminating herself. She did not want Mary's reputation as the flower of American girlhood to suffer.' Questioned concerning the whereabouts of Mrs. Shelby and Mary Miles Minter on the night of the Taylor murder, Mrs. Fillmore said: 'Mary came in about 9 p.m. in a very hysterical manner. She picked up a book and began reading about the South Sea Islands. 'The book seemed to amuse her, but I picked it up later and found it dry and uninteresting. 'Mrs. Shelby was not at home that day. I knew she was out all day and night hunting certain men to locate Mary.' Mrs. Fillmore also cited an instance in which a former film executive openly accused her mother of having murdered Taylor.
1937-08-26	When a bullet snuffed out the life of William Desmond Taylor, noted picture director, in 1922, Mrs. Charlotte Shelby was at home. Carl Stockdale, veteran actor and friend of Mrs. Shelby, so testified in Superior Judge Parker Wood's court yesterday. He appeared as a defense witness in trial of the civil suit by which Margaret Shelby Fillmore, Mrs. Shelby's daughter, is seeking to regain $48,750 in bonds, which she contends her mother removed from a joint safety deposit box. 'I was with Mrs. Shelby from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. in her apartment at Seventh street and New Hampshire avenue the night of the murder,' Stockdale stated. 'I did not know of the tragedy until the following morning when I arrived for work at the Mack Sennett Studios. 'I immediately called Mrs. Shelby and told her to prepare herself for a shock. Then I told her Mr. Taylor had been slain. 'She screamed: 'Impossible!' ' The actor's testimony, while perhaps not strictly pertinent to the present suit, was introduced to answer certain pointed intimations made during its trial, attorneys explained. Mary Miles Minter and the late Mabel Normand frequently were mentioned in gossip concerning the Taylor mystery, Stockdale said. But at no time had he heard rumors that Mrs. Shelby might be involved as a suspect, he added. The actor also testified that he had seen Mrs. Fillmore under the influence of liquor four times between 1925 and 1931.
1937-08-26	...Stockdale's testimony was in the nature of a reply to that of Mrs. Fillmore two days ago when she said she did not know her mother's whereabouts at the hour of the murder. Cross-examined as to whether he had ever heard that Mrs. Shelby was a suspect in the murder, the veteran actor replied, 'I did not hear any such rumors, but I did hear rumors that Mary (Miss Minter) and Mabel Normand were suspected of the murder.'
1937-08-31	Margaret Fillmore, sister of Mary Miles Minter, former star of the silent screen, often became intoxicated during 1935 and 1936, her mother, Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, testified today in Superior Judge Parker Wood's court. Once, Mrs. Fillmore appeared in the patio of their Laguna Beach home clad only in a clinging silken nightgown and Mrs. Shelby testified she turned a garden hose on her. 'Margaret seemed to just love the spray from the flying water,' Mrs. Shelby added. Mrs. Shelby was testifying in the trial of the suit brought against her by Margaret to recover $48,750 assertedly taken from a joint safety deposit box. 'I was watering the shrubbery in the patio of our Laguna Beach home,' Mrs. Shelby testified. 'Margaret had been drinking, and although it was a very hot day, she had remained in her room. 'Suddenly she appeared in the garden, wearing only a tight fitting silk nightgown. She started abusing me and when she started toward me I was frightened and turned the hose on her. It seemed to startle her and she stood there and smiled, with her hair dripping down across her shoulders. When I saw she enjoyed it I gave her a good ducking.' Mrs. Shelby also told of 'chasing' mythical men out of Margaret's bedchamber frequently. 'Margaret suffered from hallucinations and would wake up at night screaming, 'There are men in my room. They are hiding behind the curtains and are under my bed.' 'I would hurry to her and, although there were no men in the room I would have to shake the curtains and crawl under the bed, crying 'Shoo--get out of here--Margaret doesn't want you in here any more.' 'That seemed to please her, and she would throw her arms around my neck and say 'Please, mother, I love you. Lie down here beside me and don't let anyone hurt me. You are all that I have and I am all that you have. We must stick together.' 'Margaret would never let me take the dogs out--even to feed them. She would remain in her room as long as two days and two nights at a time without eating, and the poor dogs would have to remain locked in here with her.' 'She always hated Mary (Miles Minter), and any time her name was mentioned would burst into terrible tirades. 'I couldn't get her to eat. I used to prepare the dishes she liked best but many times she attempted to attack me as I worked about the kitchen. I finally discovered that the only way I could keep her away from me was to hold something in my hand while I worked. So usually, I prepared our dinners with either a poker or a broom in my hand.'
1937-09-01	...Referring to a period during 1934-35 Mrs. Shelby testified: 'My daughter, Margaret, would stay in her room day and night and drink. During the night she would come to my room and threaten to commit suicide.' Mrs. Shelby had given virtually identical testimony at a General Hospital hearing on her daughter's sanity, which resulted in a suggestion by psychiatrists that Mrs. Fillmore be placed in a sanitarium for several months on her own volition. 'I often wondered whether my daughter, Margaret, would live or die,' Mrs. Shelby continued. 'She was drinking more and more. She would not eat. She would stay all day and night in her room, where she would have a bottle. Mornings after she would be groggy, irritable and suspicious.' Mrs. Shelby said she turned over $35,000, realized from sale of a portion of family property in Louisiana, to Mrs. Fillmore because she feared her other daughter, Miss Minter, would institute an accounting action against her. Mrs. Shelby said she wished her daughter to 'learn the bond business' and added she had made 'Margaret personally responsible for the $35,000.'
1937-09-01	A threat of death followed by a tussle in the hall outside her bedroom was related yesterday by Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, mother of Mary Miles Minter, in testimony opposing the claim of her other daughter, Mrs. Margaret Fillmore, for $48,750, in the court of Superior Judge Parker Wood. 'Margaret would follow me around the house,' testified Mrs. Shelby, 'telling me that she wished I might die and that she would kill me.' Then on the night of July 19, 1936, Mrs. Shelby told the court and jury trying the case, 'Margaret grabbed me--by the neck' when she was aroused by noises in the hall adjoining the bedroom. Mrs. Shelby testified that she had long since locked and bolted her bedroom door at night. A memorandum from Dr. Victor Parkin, alienist, dated July 20, 1936 was introduced as evidence by Attorney Clyde Murphy, representing Mrs. Shelby. It recommended that Margaret Fillmore be taken before the Lunacy Commission and said that Dr. Parkin found her 'highly nervous and her conversation rambled.' It was at this period that Mrs. Fillmore was committed to a psychopathic ward, later being released. The present suit is based on the contention that during this incident Mrs. Shelby removed the $48,750 from a joint safe deposit box in a downtown Los Angeles bank.
1937-09-04	Fillmore Drinking Told By Doctor 'I don't know whether Margaret Fillmore drank so much because she was nervous or was nervous because she drank so much.' So testified Dr. Victor Parkin, psychiatrist and consultant, yesterday in the trial before Superior Judge Parker Wood in which Mrs. Fillmore seeks to recover $48,750 from her mother Charlotte Shelby. Cross examined by Richard Cantilllon and John Glover, attorneys for Mrs. Fillmore, Doctor Parkin disclosed that eight weeks had elapsed from the date on which he had examined the sister of Mary Miles Minter and the date when the certificate committing her to the psychopathic ward was issued.
1937-09-04	Circumstances leading up to the incarceration of Mrs. Margaret Fillmore, sister of Mary Miles Minter, former star of silent films, in the psychopathic ward of General Hospital in August, 1938, yesterday drew queries by Superior Judge Parker Wood. Details of Mrs. Fillmore's detention were inquired into by Attorneys Richard Cantillon and John Glover, representing Mrs. Fillmore in her suit for recovery of $48,750 against her mother, Mrs. Charlotte Shelby. They closely examined Dr. Victor Parkin, alienist, on whose recommendation the 36-year-old woman was committed. Judge Wood took occasion also to question Dr. Parkin when it developed that he made his original recommendation on May 11, 1936, that he last saw Mrs. Fillmore on June 4, 1936, and that the recommendation was not used until months later. Mrs. Fillmore was committed on August 5 and released after a hearing. Dr. Parkin explained that he had been on his vacation during the interval. Judge Knight said he would recommend that hereafter physicians making such recommendations be examined at the time the patient is ordered committed.
1938-09-13	Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, mother of Mary Miles Minter, former screen luminary, yesterday was virtually accused by another daughter, Mrs. Margaret Fillmore, of having killed William Desmond Taylor, film director of the silent screen. The bitterly made accusation came in Superior Judge Thomas C. Gould's court during litigation involving furniture purportedly worth $50,000-- litigation which played a part in one of a long series of suits featuring mother and daughter. Anticlimax of the still unsolved Taylor slaying, which occurred 15 years ago and still has some of the nation's most expert criminologists baffled. Mrs. Fillmore, as in previous suits, again shot implications at her mother, quoting the latter as stating Mrs. Shelby's mother had thrown the Taylor death gun into a Louisiana bayou. 'This mad woman,' Mrs. Fillmore said, staring straight before her, and referring to her mother, 'would cut your heart out for a dime...' Mrs. Fillmore was being questioned by Clyde F. Murphy, attorney for the mother, concerning ownership of the disputed furniture. After Mrs. Fillmore made the statement that her mother had not owned any furniture since Taylor was murdered, Murphy asked: 'Did she tell you she wanted to be in a position to get out of the country in a hurry?' 'Many, many times,' was the answer. 'What were her reasons?' 'She was frightened by the Taylor murder case--she still is--it is still pending.' 'What did she tell you?' 'She told me they were pinning it pretty close to her. She was awfully worried. And she was very grateful that her mother had gone to Louisiana and thrown the gun that had killed William Desmond Taylor into a bayou on the plantation.' After the court session ended, Mrs. Fillmore explained that the plantation mentioned belonged to the Miles family and was located at Bastrop, La., near New Orleans. She explained that Mrs. Shelby mother was Julia B. Miles, who had died in
1939-12-23	Margaret Shelby Fillmore, 39, sister of Mary Miles Minter, former star of silent films and central figure in the William Desmond Taylor murder case, yesterday died at her Valentine St. home after a long illness. Mrs. Fillmore, divorced since 1927 from her former husband, Hugh Fillmore, was married in March, 1937, to Emmett J. Flynn after a Yuma elopement and granted an annulment April 27 of the same year. On June 5, 1937, Flynn died. A little more than two months later she began a suit against her mother asking $48,750, which she asserted her mother, Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, took from a safety deposit box both shared in a Los Angeles bank. A jury awarded Mrs. Fillmore $20,000 after hearing the suit... Funeral services for Mrs. Fillmore will be conducted at noon Tuesday from the Garrett Bros. chapel, 921 Venice Blvd., followed by private internment.
1939-12-27	During her troubled life there had been times when Margaret Shelby Fillmore, sister of Mary Miles Minter, the film star whose career waned with the murder of her fiance and director, William Desmond Taylor, could number her friends by the hundred. Yesterday there were only 10 persons present at funeral services for Mrs. Fillmore, who died last Friday after a long illness. In the chapel of the Garrett Brothers Mortuary at 921 Venice boulevard were eight friends--five women and three men--and in the mourners' room off the chancel were her mother, Mrs. Charlotte Shelby, and her sister, Miss Minter, who at times had been estranged from her. Internment took place at Forest Lawn Memorial Park. Mrs. Fillmore in 1937 won a $20,000 judgment from her mother, charging that Mrs. Shelby had taken money from a safe deposit box. The lawsuit took a sensational turn when Mrs. Fillmore declared part of the money was due her for 'protecting' her mother during the Taylor case investigation. By an ironic coincidence, the name William D. Taylor figured in the family pattern even in Mrs. Fillmore's death, for the embalmer who prepared the 39-year-old woman's body for burial is a man named William D. Taylor.
1947-02-01	...An old-time police detective, James F. Bean, long since retired, worked on the case painstakingly. He had the most prosaic theory of them all as to how Taylor met death. Because it was prosaic, it never received much publicity. He said: 'I believe and always will believe that a burglar killed Taylor. He was known as the 'Dinner Time Thief' because he always stole between 5:30 p.m. and 7 p.m., when residents of the Westlake district were out eating. I checked the police records, which disclosed that this thief had committed about 25 burglaries in the area surrounding the Taylor home during the year prior to the director's slaying. 'Immediately after the murder of Taylor this burglar ceased operating. '...Taylor was a courageous man. His friends testified to that. I reasoned at the time that burglar, probably aware that Taylor lived alone, was watching the house. He saw the director and Miss Normand walk out to her car. He figured they were going to dinner. It was his custom to wait until victims left their homes and then quickly go in and loot them. I reasoned that the prowler, intent on a fast clean-up, saw Taylor and Miss Normand leave, then he entered... He was busy looting when Taylor came back and confronted him. 'In my mind's eye, I can see the burglar and Taylor facing each other, the thief telling the director to hold up his hands and sit down. Contemptuously and foolhardedly, I can see Taylor grab the small, strait backed chair with the intention of hitting the intruder over the head with it. The chair came aloft and as Taylor's body half turned to deliver the blow, the thief stepped back and fired... Naturally, Taylor died instantly. 'In my opinion, the Taylor murder will never be solved unless the guilty person confesses on his or her deathbed, an unlikely prospect, but I still believe that a prowler fired the fatal shot and my guess is as good as anyone's.'
1960-09-25	Silent film star Kathlyn Eyton Williams was found dead Saturday in her apartment at 1428 N. Crescent Heights Blvd., West Hollywood. She was discovered sitting in the wheel chair to which she had been confined since losing a leg in a near fatal auto crash in Death Valley in 1949. Death was from natural causes. ...She married producer Charles Eyton at Riverside in 1916. They were divorced at Reno in 1931 but remained friends. Each remembered the other in their wills and when Eyton died in 1941 Miss Williams inherited 20 per cent of his estate, worth $10,000 annually. She had lived in her handsome apartment since the early 1930s and was known as a gracious hostess who entertained socialites and motion picture celebrities frequently. The years following her auto crash were dark ones for the vivacious actress. Confinement to the wheel chair altered her active way of life and she once confessed 'I wanted to die when I realized how bad off I was.'...96