Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-06	(from an interview with actress Winifred Kingston)..Miss Kingston threw some very interesting light on Sands' career, details gleaned, she said, from various conversations with Taylor. 'While Edward Knoblock was living at Mr. Taylor's home [during June/July 1921 when Taylor was in Europe], ' she said, 'Sands went down to a well known department store in town and bought at various times a considerable amount of lingerie. I understood he gave these to a girl he was interested in--a very young creature who lived at home with her mother. All of this he charged to Mr. Taylor's account, a matter which greatly enraged the director when he returned from abroad. ...'During this same period, when Mr. Knoblock was a guest of Mr. Taylor's and was supposed to pay for nothing, Sands presented the English author with a bill amounting to some hundreds of dollars for groceries he had used while at the house. Mr. Knoblock, being a gentleman and not wanting a row, however little he understood the matter, paid the bill. When Mr. Taylor returned he was naturally dumbfounded. 'On another occasion Sands did another peculiar thing. Mr. Taylor had two thermos bottles around the house, neither of any particular value. There were many other things Sands easily could have stolen of more value. But he took one of these bottles to present to some girl. Her mother did not understand the act at all and didn't want the girl to take it. 'Most unusual of Sands' actions, however, was a document he once drew up. 'One day, to show his affection and regard for Mr. Taylor, he wrote, in his own handwriting, a sort of servile contract, in which he said that he would be Mr. Taylor's servant for life and would always be his slave. 'Mr. Taylor told me about the document and laughed. I don't know what ever happened to the paper, but Sands apparently took it seriously. 'All of this led me to believe that the man was mentally deranged and he is the only man I can think of who might have killed Mr. Taylor.'
New York	New York	New York Herald	1922-02-06	(Los Angeles)--...The fact that his houseman, Henry Peavey, and his former secretary, Edward F. Sands, are both said to be 'queer persons,' has led to much speculation whether Taylor was abnormal himself. It is thought by a majority who are investigating the case that this is a phase which will develop and throw much new light on the case.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Herald	1922-02-06	Several detectives were inclined to the theory that the person who slew Taylor may have been mentally unbalanced, and qualified their remarks regarding that phase of the probe by discussing confidential reports obtained today from the mystery witness who called at detective headquarters and who was said to have stated he saw Sands near the scene of the slaying late Wednesday night.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Times	1922-02-06	Following the detention earlier in the day of a suspect and two material witnesses in the Taylor murder case, the escape of the slayer of William Desmond Taylor from the dimly-lighted court on South Alvarado street was re- enacted last night in the very shadows where the murderer lurked last Wednesday night awaiting his chance to kill the famous film director. The dramatic action was precipitated by the taking into custody of three men by Al Manning, criminal superintendent of the Sheriff's office, and Deputy Sheriff Harvey Bell. The suspect and the two men who were wanted as material witnesses against him were detained after an investigation lasting two days, and as the result of information that an automobile said to resemble one owned by the suspect was seen at the scene of the crime on the night of the 1st inst. The suspect was taken to the scene of the crime after a long cross- examination at the Sheriff's office, and after he was unable to state definitely where he was at the time Taylor was killed. Accompanied by his captor and Detective Sergeant Herman H. Cline, the man was taken to the vicinity of the slaying for the purpose of re-enacting the tragedy. No positive identification was made, however, and the man was released, with instructions to remain in touch with the investigating officers. The suspect is a motion-picture actor. He admitted the ownership of the automobile, but denied he was the man seen leaving the Alvarado street court. Immediately after the suspect was taken away from the vicinity, Capt. Adams, Detectives Cline, Cahill and Cato, in charge of the investigation, and several members of the motion-picture interests, now working in an effort to solve the slaying of one of their members went into conference in the Taylor apartment. A new reconstruction of the crime, and a general checking up of all known facts and factors in the case was the purpose of the gathering, according to the announcement by the officers and by Frank E. Garbutt and Charles F. Eyton, general manager of the Famous Players-Lasky Company. 'We are going to take every known fact and factor and check all available information. We have nothing new, but we want to make certain of all we have,' was the only announcement after the conference. The large table in the Taylor apartment was piled high with papers and letters when the officers and film officials went into the conference. A thorough check of every document, picture, telegram and letter was promised, with a view of gleaning, if possible, some clew that would assist in the search for the slayer. None of the furniture in the room has been disturbed. The half-dozen detectives detailed to the solution of the crime yesterday were particularly active. The chocolate-colored automobile seen to leave the vicinity of the Taylor home at 404-B South Alvarado street has been identified, it was learned, and eliminated as bearing on the case. Henry Peavey, colored houseman for Mr. Taylor, and the man who found the body, yesterday was in conference with some of the detectives. He is declared to have wanted to leave Los Angeles to go north and sought permission to do so. He is said to have added little new information to the case. Peavey left the Taylor home while Mabel Normand was there and more than a half hour before the assassin shot his victim through the heart. Many letters, bills and other correspondence found among the effects of Mr. Taylor were closely examined during the day for possible information. Among those letters were messages of greeting and friendly notes from many film stars including Blanche Sweet and Gloria Swanson. The correspondence and other papers including many canceled checks threw considerable light on the acquaintances and activities of Mr. Taylor but little on the question of who shot him. Detectives Cahill and Cato responded to a 'hot tip' early in the afternoon coming from a downtown address but nothing definite developed. A great number of 'tips' have been reported to the police station and although many of them are not regarded as valuable on the surface all are being carefully checked that no clew be overlooked. Throughout all the investigation thus far the name of Edward F. Sands or Edward Fitz or Edward Fitz Strathmore--all of which names he used-0-has been prominently projected into the mystery. Sands, a former secretary who was accused of robbing Mr. Taylor and of forging many checks on his bank account, is being sought. The police are anxious to find him because of the knowledge he may have of Mr. Taylor's past life. The uncovering of the dual existence led by the prominent director, whose name became a household word throughout the country, has strangely muddled the situation. Many new motives and possibilities have been brought to the front because of Taylor's dual life and mysterious past. The discovery of a deserted wife and daughter who knew Mr. Taylor as William Cunningham Deane Taylor [sic] before he suddenly left New York in 1908 has been one of the puzzling chapters in the man's past life. His frequent trips to the Far North also add color to many theories of real or fancied wrongs of his acquaintances in his wandering days forming the background of a revenge slaying. Mabel Normand's missing letters were sought by the detectives yesterday. Miss Normand probably the last friend to see Mr. Taylor alive, attempted Saturday to recover some letters written by her to the slain man and known to have been in the home. Detective Sergeants Herman Cline, Cato, Cahill, Winn, Wallace and Zeigler state they have not found these letters. Captain of Detectives Adams also denies having them. The officers say they do not know who has them. Chief Dep. Dist.-Atty. Doran says also that he has seen nothing of them.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Times	1922-02-06	Mr. Taylor loved Miss Normand very much, but I do not believe that she returned his love to any great extent.' This is what Henry Peavey, Taylor's colored house servant, said early yesterday evening when questioned by reporters of The Times. 'I was in Mr. Taylor's house for almost six months,' declared Peavey, 'and I know that Mr. Taylor was very much in love with Miss Normand. At times I thought that she returned his love and then again it seemed to me that she was tired of him. 'One night almost a month before Mr. Taylor was killed Miss Normand came to the house for dinner. After dinner she went into the front room with Mr. Taylor and they were talking. I passed through the room and she stopped me. She told me then that she and Mr. Taylor were to be married. He was sitting there and didn't say a word. She wanted to know if I would work for them and I told her that I was afraid that I would be unable to please her. She stated that I was pleasing Mr. Taylor and that therefore I would please her. 'Miss Normand never came to the house very often. During the time I worked there she was only in Mr. Taylor's home about a dozen times. She was there the night before the murder and again the night that Mr. Taylor was killed. I know that she was with Mr. Taylor on the Tuesday night, before the Wednesday that he was killed, because she told me so. Wednesday night when she came in Mr. Taylor asked her to have some pudding. She said while I was in the room that she did not care for any pudding that night, but had enjoyed the pudding that she had the night before. Then I learned for the first time what had happened to some pudding that I had left in the ice box on Tuesday night and that was gone Wednesday morning when I arrived at the Taylor home. 'In my job as houseman I was in a position to know quite a bit about Mr. Taylor's business. He wrote a litter to Miss Normand almost every day of the week. His driver would take the notes to Miss Normand's home by automobile after breakfast in the mornings. A week never went by that he did not write to her at least three times. 'Mr. Taylor always sent Miss Normand flowers at least three times a week. He purchased the flowers from a wholesale place on Los Angeles street between Second and Third streets. Once I paid for some of them, the single bunch cost $35. He would have the flowers sent out from the wholesale house direct. 'While Miss Normand was in New York finishing her last picture Mr. Taylor send her a telegram every evening of his life. He would give them to me and I sent them on my way home. I always gave them to the same girl in the Western Union main office. She is still working there. Miss Normand answered his telegrams and almost every morning just after I arrived at the Taylor home the boy would come with Miss Normand's telegram. Mr. Taylor saved them all, but I don't know where he kept them. 'I remember one evening when Miss Normand was with Mr. Taylor in his home she saw his new music box and while I was in the room she asked him if they were going to have one like it when they were married. He told her that they would keep the one he had just purchased if she liked it. 'A year ago last Christmas Miss Normand gave Mr. Taylor a set of diamond shirt studs and diamond cuff links. Last Christmas she sent him a large silver cigarette case and a match holder and a cigarette holder. Some time after Christmas the match and cigarette holder disappeared, but he had the case on him the night that he died. I don't know what Mr. Taylor gave Miss Normand for Christmas, but I know that he was always sending her something or other. 'Mr. Taylor used to talk to Miss Normand over the telephone a great deal. He always asked me to get the number for him. Sometimes some one would answer me and when I said that Mr. Taylor wished to speak to Miss Normand they would hang up the telephone. It was then that I would believe that Miss Normand did not care for my master like he did for her. 'Only once during the time that I worked for Mr. Taylor did Miss Normand ask me about other girls. She stopped me once when she was in the home and ask me what other girls had dinner with Mr. Taylor. I told her that there was only one. She ask me who the one was an I told, Miss Normand. She laughed at me and said that Mr. Taylor had me well trained. 'Miss Normand was with Mr. Taylor the last time I saw him alive. My master asked me to mix up some cocktails and I did. I placed the liquor in the shaker on a tray with two glasses and Mr. Taylor and Miss Normand were drinking when I left for the evening. They both said good night to me and I left the house. When I next saw Mr. Taylor he was dead on the floor of his living-room.'
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Times	1922-02-06	A woman's pink silk nightgown found in the bachelor apartments of William Desmond Taylor, celebrated film director, who was slain in his home last Wednesday night, yesterday added another puzzling phase to the deepening mystery of circumstances surrounding his death. From former employees of Mr. Taylor it was learned that silken things unknown in a man's wardrobe were among the effects of Mr. Taylor. That the police found evidence of this was learned for the first time yesterday, following the stories related by two former employees. Henry Peavey, the houseman who discovered the body on Thursday morning, declared he had seen at least one pink silk nightgown there. In connection with this, it also was learned yesterday how Edward F. Sands, former secretary, accused robber and forger and now being sought as a material witness in the murder case, spied on his employer while working for Mr. Taylor. Sands related his observations to Earl Tiffany, former chauffeur for Mr. Taylor, so Mr. Tiffany says. He observed silken things of pink hue in the upstairs rooms of the expensively appointed apartment. His curiosity was aroused. So Sands folded the garments in a trick manner, according to the story related by Mr. Tiffany, who was employed at the same time as was Sands. The result of the servant's trap were that he became convinced the garments were not merely kept there for sentimental reasons. He paid particular attention to the visitors to the Taylor home, it was declared, and drew his own conclusions. Peavey stated last night he remembered seeing at least one pink nightgown. If his memory serves him right, he added, it was there the day Mr. Taylor was killed. Police officers yesterday were evasive as to the whereabouts of the lingerie. They declined to say whether or not they are devoting part of their efforts to that phase of the mystery.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-06	On the desk of William Desmond Taylor stood one framed photograph. In his entire bungalow, filled with photos of celebrities and friends, mostly women, this picture alone was framed--and framed beautifully in naturally finish hardwood. It was the likeness of Winifred Kingston, film star. 'Engaged ever?' Miss Kingston was asked yesterday in her beautiful West Hollywood home. 'Ridiculous!' 'Mr. Taylor and I were the best of friends--nothing more. I knew him perhaps as intimately as any woman friend could, but there had never been a whisper or thought of love between us. Certainly not. 'It so happened that both Mr. Taylor and I were English--that is, he was Irish, but a British subject and educated as an Englishman and with the British army traditions behind him and his family. 'We Britishers are naturally reserved and don't usually tell intimate things to others. But early in the history of the films, Mr. Taylor and I became acquainted, back in the 'Balboa' days. As I was English we became somewhat more friendly than most and at various times he told me many things, perhaps, which everyone did not know. 'For example, he told me about having been married and having a child, and also about having been divorced. I never thought anything in particular about it and don't even remember the occasion of his telling me--whether I asked him or whether he volunteered the information. 'But any number of us in the film colony knew his and those who didn't know had to reason to--they weren't the sort of people or weren't close enough to Mr. Taylor to be told. I don't see why any one is surprised to learn about that. 'It's not unusual, either, that he should have had my photograph on his desk. He directed me in any number of pictures and for years we have been good friends. I gave him that picture for Christmas one year and he probably had it framed as a matter of course. 'As a matter of fact, one is more liable to frame a picture of an old, though platonic friend, that a picture of one in whom he is but momentarily interested. 'I never knew, of course, that he had changed his name on coming out here, but that fact doesn't seem to be important. 'As a matter of fact, I don't see where any of this old history is important in the solution of the mystery of his death. I think everything points to this man Sands.' Miss Kingston threw some very interesting light on Sands' career, details gleaned, she said, from various conversations with Taylor. 'While Edward Knoblock was living at Mr. Taylor's home,' she said, 'Sands went down to a well known department store in town and bought at various times a considerable amount of lingerie. I understood he gave this to a girl he was interested in--a very young creature who lived at home with her mother. All of this he charged to Mr. Taylor's account, a matter which greatly enraged the director when he returned from abroad. 'Sands had frequently done shopping for him, but Mr. Taylor told me humorously that he would hardly have sent a servant to pick out ladies' underwear. 'During this same period, when Mr. Knoblock was a guest of Mr. Taylor's and was supposed to pay for nothing, Sands presented the English author with a bill amounting to some hundreds of dollars for groceries he had used while at the house. Mr. Knoblock, being a gentleman and not wanting a row, however little he understood the matter, paid the bill. When Mr. Taylor returned he was naturally dumbfounded. 'On another occasion Sands did another peculiar thing. Mr. Taylor had two thermos bottles around the house, neither of any particular value. There were many other things Sands easily could have stolen of more value, but he took one of these bottles to present to some girl. Her mother did not understand the act at all and didn't want the girl to take it. 'Most unusual of Sands' actions, however, was a document he once drew up. 'One day, to show his affection and regard for Mr. Taylor, he wrote, in his own handwriting, a sort of servile contract, in which he said that he would be Mr. Taylor's servant for life and would always be his slave. 'Mr. Taylor told me about the document and laughed. I don't know what every happened to the paper, but Sands apparently took it seriously. 'All of this led me to believe that the man was mentally deranged and he is the only man I can think of who might have killed Mr. Taylor.' Miss Kingston said that she could find no possible intimation or statement made by Taylor to her that might form the basis for a motive growing out of an old feud. Nothing of the kind was ever said to her, she stated.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-06	Baring in detail her entire acquaintance with William D. Taylor for the past seven years Miss Neva Gerber, his former fiancee, yesterday afternoon graphically told of his fits of utter despondency that gripped the dead man at times and of his many mysterious disappearances, for two and three weeks at a time continuing over a period of several years, and admitted that she had received thousands of dollars in checks from the dead director. 'At times Mr. Taylor would sink to such depths of despair, said Miss Gerber, 'that his whole body seemed racked as if in physical torture. He would walk the floor and wring his hands exclaiming, 'Why do I have to keep up this battle? Is it worth while to keep up this struggle of existence? With all of these odds against me is the struggle worth while?' and when I would ask him what he meant by these strange words he would say, 'Oh, my health is so bad--I have no stomach left--I can't eat anything,' but there were other times when he would say 'I have had bad news from home,' but he never told me just what the news was. 'There would be times just after he had finished directing a picture when he would say he was so nervous he would have to go away for awhile and that he was going out into the mountains where he could rest and would see no one. Sometimes he would be gone as long as three weeks and I would not hear from him, although he would telegraph from some nearby point just as he was leaving and just before his return. Once he told me that had been driving down from the Northern part of the State alone for three days and later when mentioning an incident of the trip he said 'the man who was with me in the car said this was a dangerous piece of road.' I said 'I thought you were alone,' and he very plausibly explained it was a man he had picked up and was giving a lift, and although I did not exactly have any suspicions about anything I often wondered about these trips. 'It is true that Mr. Taylor gave me three cars, first an old one that he had used and later two new ones which were purchased in my name. When he began giving me presents of jewelry, automobiles and--' Miss Gerber hesitated and blushed--'and money, we were engaged, we expected to be married as soon as I got my divorce and it did not seem anything out of the way to either of us. When we first began going together Mr. Taylor had less financial resources than I had myself. When we would go out to dinner together when I was first working with the Balboa Film Company we would many times pool all of our spare change and decide where we could afford to eat. 'He always said that I had been a square pal with him and when he began making really big money he seemed to think it was just the natural thing to divide what he had with me. When our engagement was broken off about two years ago we did not have any quarrel; there were not harsh words or even bitter feeling. After he came back from the army he seemed more melancholy and despondent than he had been before. He would even be irritable at times, so my mother said that as I had had such an unfortunate experience in my marriage to one man who was much older than myself that it was not wise to make another venture of the same kind. Both she and I talked to him about this and we decided to end the engagement. After that time I never went out with him. I did not see him for months at a time, although he frequently phoned, and he came to the house a few times. He was always just as pleasant to both my mother and myself as he had ever been, and he continued to make me little presents of money, by check, sometimes $75, sometimes $100. 'A little over a year ago I started my own company and put quite a bit of my own money into the venture and it has not brought returns as rapidly as I had expected. Some time about the 9th of January, 1922, I was talking to Mr. Taylor on the telephone and told him that things were in pretty much of a jam, and that I was in temporary financial straits, and he said he would let me have some money, and about the 11th day of the same month he sent me a check for $500. 'I have never kept any record of the amounts given me, but his generosity has continued over a number of years and I suppose his gifts would amount, all told, to several thousand dollars. Mr. Taylor used to depend on me to look after many things for him. It was I who found the house for him in which he was living at the time of his death, and when he and I were engaged and were going out together I would frequently stop there for a few minutes, but there was always a servant present. 'When Mr. Taylor frequently betrayed such an intimate knowledge of works of art of every description I would say to him, 'How did you learn so much about period furniture and tapestries and everything like that?' he would reply, 'Oh, I used to chum around with a man in New York who was an art collector and an authority on the subject and he taught me all I know.' And he would often refer casually to his life in New York. Sometimes, but very infrequently, he would speak of his people in England. He said he had a sister and a mother there and that his child was with his mother in England. When he returned from the war he told me that his sister's husband had been killed in battle and that both his mother and child had been killed in a German air raid over London. He never spoke of having a brother or a sister- in-law. 'Although I know of his former wife--he had described her to me as a very beautiful blonde--I never suspected that he had lived under a different name or that there was anything in his past which he needed or wished to conceal. Once when I was crying over something he became infuriated and told me never to do so again in his presence as it crazed him and rendered him so irresponsible he felt like striking a woman who cried. He then told me that his former wife's crying had been the thing which had made it impossible for him to live with her, but that is the only thing he ever said about their differences. 'But he frequently referred in a vague way to great sorrows he had had and of not making the most he might out of his life. I would try to cheer him up by telling him of what a wonderful director he had become in such a short time and that he had great fame and success ahead of him, and sometimes he would throw off his despairing mood but it began to return more and more frequently. I do not think the general public knew anything about this despondent side of him as he was a very silent and self-contained man. 'Because of his unhappy moods and his loneliness I had frequently begged him not to live alone, but to take a room at a club or a hotel but he said he could only work when entirely isolated and that he loved solitude. I had not seen him for several weeks previous to the murder and I have not the slightest conception or theory as to what was the motive or who was the perpetrator of so cruel a deed.'
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-06	Los Angeles, Feb. 5--Once, in an expansive mood, William Desmond Taylor, film director, whose murder last Wednesday was one of the most mysterious ever recorded in Los Angeles, talked intimately with his chauffeur, Lester Wing. 'I never really loved but one woman,' Taylor declared to the Chinese, according to the latter's story, told yesterday. 'She was my stage partner. I was engaged to her. But she died before we could be married--and I'll never marry another woman.' Wing was in Taylor's employ for several years before the film director deserted the land of make-believe to take part in the real, hard game of war. 'Mr. Taylor was a fine man,' Wing said. 'He was very good to his servants. And brave. Why, on the way to Bakersfield one time, a car sped around a curve ahead of us, threatening to run us off the road, but Mr. Taylor never flinched. 'Also, he trusted people too much, at times, I think. Once he trusted anyone it was forever. Many times he sent me to deposit money in the bank-- $1,500, $2,000, and sometimes as high as $3,000 in money and checks. 'Once a lady from New York sent him a telegram asking to help her. She was in need. He sent me to the telegraph office with $200 in cash to send to her. 'He taught me lots of things. Anything I ever wanted to know he would explain and make me understand.' The only woman with whom Taylor was friendly at the time of Wing's service was Neva Gerber, according to the Chinese. She was with Taylor several times a week. Two or three times a week it was Taylor's habit to call for his car, a beautiful gray one, and take a long ride alone. Often, Wing said, he would leave the car with the chauffeur and talk long, solitary walks. 'He would walk alone, eat alone, cook alone--everything alone,' the former chauffeur said. 'The only time he would want to see me would be to make appointments.' The high esteem in which Taylor was held by those with whom he transacted business was told by Mrs. Edna Goodwin of 1910 West Sixth street. 'We owned a garage near the Taylor home,' Mrs. Goodwin said. 'Mr. Taylor often came to us for gasoline and other service. That was three years ago before he entered the army. 'He had a buff colored chummy roadster, and there was always a young lady with him--generally the same one. As soon as we saw the car coming we'd run out, exclaiming: ''There's Bill Taylor; there's Bill Taylor.' 'We thought so much of him. And every one connected with the garage thought the same. He was a wonderful man. I can't understand why anyone would want to harm him. 'Taylor had a Chinese chauffeur at that time, Lester Wing. And after Taylor went away, Wing entered the service of another man. But he could not be consoled. He would often come in and say: ''I wish Mr. Taylor would come back, so I could be his chauffeur again. I'll never get another boss like him.''
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-06	Los Angeles, Feb. 5--Once, in an expansive mood, William Desmond Taylor, film director, whose murder last Wednesday was one of the most mysterious ever recorded in Los Angeles, talked intimately with his chauffeur, Lester Wing. 'I never really loved but one woman,' Taylor declared to the Chinese, according to the latter's story, told yesterday. 'She was my stage partner. I was engaged to her. But she died before we could be married--and I'll never marry another woman.' Wing was in Taylor's employ for several years before the film director deserted the land of make-believe to take part in the real, hard game of war. 'Mr. Taylor was a fine man,' Wing said. 'He was very good to his servants. And brave. Why, on the way to Bakersfield one time, a car sped around a curve ahead of us, threatening to run us off the road, but Mr. Taylor never flinched. 'Also, he trusted people too much, at times, I think. Once he trusted anyone it was forever. Many times he sent me to deposit money in the bank-- $1,500, $2,000, and sometimes as high as $3,000 in money and checks. 'Once a lady from New York sent him a telegram asking to help her. She was in need. He sent me to the telegraph office with $200 in cash to send to her. 'He taught me lots of things. Anything I ever wanted to know he would explain and make me understand.' The only woman with whom Taylor was friendly at the time of Wing's service was Neva Gerber, according to the Chinese. She was with Taylor several times a week. Two or three times a week it was Taylor's habit to call for his car, a beautiful gray one, and take a long ride alone. Often, Wing said, he would leave the car with the chauffeur and talk long, solitary walks. 'He would walk alone, eat alone, cook alone--everything alone,' the former chauffeur said. 'The only time he would want to see me would be to make appointments.' The high esteem in which Taylor was held by those with whom he transacted business was told by Mrs. Edna Goodwin of 1910 West Sixth street. 'We owned a garage near the Taylor home,' Mrs. Goodwin said. 'Mr. Taylor often came to us for gasoline and other service. That was three years ago before he entered the army. 'He had a buff colored chummy roadster, and there was always a young lady with him--generally the same one. As soon as we saw the car coming we'd run out, exclaiming: ''There's Bill Taylor; there's Bill Taylor.' 'We thought so much of him. And every one connected with the garage thought the same. He was a wonderful man. I can't understand why anyone would want to harm him. 'Taylor had a Chinese chauffeur at that time, Lester Wing. And after Taylor went away, Wing entered the service of another man. But he could not be consoled. He would often come in and say: ''I wish Mr. Taylor would come back, so I could be his chauffeur again. I'll never get another boss like him.''
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-06	I sought those letters and hoped to get them before they reached the scrutiny of others. I admit this but it was for only one purpose--to prevent their terms of affection from being misconstrued. 'You see, just in a jest, Mr. Taylor called me 'Blessed Baby'--it started at dinner parties we attended together. And just to tease him, I called him--this great, big, stern-minded man--'Baby' in return. They were used in our letters, strictly in fun, and I feared, well, misunderstanding.' And this is the reason Mabel Normand, famous film star, told The Examiner yesterday that she sought so earnestly the missives exchanged between her and the slain motion-picture director, William Desmond Taylor, after the inquest Saturday. But the letters and telegrams she refers to are strangely missing. Following the second burglary of the Taylor bungalow, at 404 B South Alvarado street some weeks ago, they were found undisturbed when Taylor showed Miss Normand about the ransacked rooms. They were then in the top drawer of the dresser. 'Our letters exchanged were mostly 'joshing' ones, frivolous and jesting about the trivialities we had come upon since our last meeting. Some were of more serious import, explained why dinner engagements we had arranged had to be canceled,' Miss Normand said yesterday. 'Most of the Letters--there were eight or nine of them--were written when either he and I was in New York and sent from the Ritz-Carlton. One was when I was ill and told him the difficulty I had in purchasing certain types of golf balls he had requested me to purchase for him in the city. 'The telegrams, a half dozen of them, were of similar nature merely asking about the health of the other and telling him how I was enjoying the attractions in the metropolis. 'I seldom would sign my name, preferring to keep him guessing with a sketch of myself at the end of the letter. His calling me 'Blessed Baby'-- started at a dinner party--and he said it, of course, with a laugh, but it seemed so inconsistent from that stern-typed man--and I joshed him about it. Later, in the same laughing spirit, I called him by the equally inconsistent term 'Baby' and we continued it. But since I have feared that it would be misconstrued--that it would not appear to be as intended.' Then the famous picture star reverted in conversation to the night of the tragedy, when the director was slain a short time after he had escorted Miss Normand to her waiting automobile. 'There is a doubt yet in my mind but that the murderer was not in the house secreted during the time of my short visit with Mr. Taylor,' she said. 'I can't understand how he could have been brazen enough to have entered during the brief interim when Mr. Taylor came with me to the curbing. 'A mysterious part of it all was a telephone call he was receiving shortly before I visited his apartment to inquire about a book he was to lend me. He was helping me with my literary studies, you know, and treated me always with the courtesy of an adviser. 'My bell was answered by his colored servant, Henry Peavey, who told me Mr. Taylor was telephoning. Not wishing to eavesdrop on a private conversation I told Peavey I would wait outside. When Mr. Taylor heard my voice he hurriedly cut off his phone call and rushed to meet me with: ''Oh, I know why you have come. It is for the book I was to lend you.' We talked for about three quarters of an hour--it was just 7:45 that evening when I left him--and then he told me that he had some checks to mail out. He said he would phone to me about 9 and see how I enjoyed the start of the book. 'Shortly before this, Peavey who had been finishing his work in the kitchen, nodded a 'good night,' stopped for a short conversation with my chauffeur and went on his way. After Mr. Taylor had helped me with my wraps he took me to my car, where we talked for a moment about a magazine I had purchased. I then drove away, 'My opinion is that Mr. Taylor was murdered for a motive of revenge, but just why someone would seek vengeance is beyond my comprehension. Never in his conversation with me had he spoken of any enmity between him and others. And I never should have suspected it, as he was the type that seemed to make of everyone a devoted friend. 'In my opinion Mr. Taylor was of irreproachable morals, a typical gentleman, who seemed incapable of stooping to things of the questionable or dishonorable sort. To me he was always a kindly adviser in my efforts at mental improvement and to all who knew him he was an inspiration to the nobler and loftier things of life. 'If there is a possibility that the jealousy of another woman enters into the mystery,' Miss Normand continued, 'I feel certain that the phone call which he was receiving as I entered his apartment had something to do with it. 'Whoever it was calling him seemed intensely absorbed in what he had to say. And the hasty cutting off of the conversation might have aroused antagonism in any one interested in Mr. Taylor in a sentimental way. Perhaps the announcement of his servant, Peavey, that I had come was overheard by the person at the other end of the wire. And perhaps--who can tell--that it was this person who imagined jealousy and outraged feelings and came immediately to the apartment and committed the venomous deed. 'I did not ask him who it was that called, for I felt it was none of my business. Then again, he was not the type of man who lets others in on what he considered his private affairs. He was very secretive--almost seemed to place a barrier of mystery between him and his most intimate friends--and it was this mystic quality that gave him such marked fascination. 'Of this much I am thoroughly convinced: It was a man, not a woman, who fired the shot that killed Taylor. I know the feminine sex and feel certain that a woman would have had to take more than one shot to have had as deadly an effect as the one that brought about his demise. Perhaps in three or four efforts she might have done it--but not in one. 'The man who committed this deed was a sure shot and understood the gun game. He understood where to aim, and when--an experienced gunman. 'As for the disappearance of my letters I cannot account. I know of absolutely no one who would be interested in them. They have no significance of anything except the harmless friendship that existed between us. When I saw Mr. Taylor was keeping them I asked him why. And I remember yet his kindly countenance when he smiled and said: 'Oh--just because.' 'He often remonstrated with me because I did not write more frequently. But what I usually had to say was done over the phone or in his presence. 'I want everyone to know, however, that I am doing all I possibly can to aid in the solution of this tragic mystery,' she concluded. 'For Mr. Taylor was to me the very personification of kindliness and righteousness--the sort of man that made it an honor to be called his friend.'
New York	New York	New York Herald	1922-02-06	Los Angeles, Feb. 5--...A report of a threat made on the night of the murder also was being run down. This report, made by a business man to the police, was expected to set the officers on the trail of a man who is quoted as saying on the night Taylor was slain within a few minutes after Mabel Normand left the Taylor home: 'There will be a movie director show up missing in the morning.'... Capt. Adams said it was not impossible that Taylor was killed by a burglar, who seized upon the opportunity provided when Taylor escorted Miss Normand to her automobile to sneak in the house. The position of the bullet and the line of fire indicated shows, Capt. Adams said, that the assassin probably was crouching behind the door when Taylor entered... The fact that his houseman, Henry Peavey, and his former secretary, Edward F. Sands, are both said to be 'queer persons,' has led to much speculation whether Taylor was abnormal himself. It is thought by a majority who are investigating the case that this is a phase which will develop and throw much new light on the case. Other associates of the man are known to the police to be persons of vicious habits...
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Record	1922-02-06	...The shot that killed William Desmond Taylor was fired from a distance of only three or four inches. This startling discovery in the murder mystery was announced following a conference at police headquarters today between the officers investigating the crime. It was revealed when Detective Sergeant Edward King, detailed to duty at the district attorney's office, brought to the conference the clothing of the murdered movie director. Powder burns on the tan gabardine coat indicated that the revolver was held by the assassin almost against Taylor's body. Experiments in the police shooting gallery, where shots were fired at a similar piece of cloth from varying distances, confirmed the surmise that the muzzle of the revolver could not have been more than 4 inches from Taylor's coat when the fatal shot was fired. This discovery leads to two speculations. Number One: (Which is not considered seriously by the police,) is that Taylor killed himself. But no weapon was found by the body. The only conclusion reconcilable with this hypothesis is that the body was discovered by a burglar, who had entered the apartment and who was frightened away after picking up the revolver. Number Two: Taylor might have engaged in a desperate struggle with his assassin before he was killed, and that they were at death grips when the murderer pulled out his weapon and fired. This speculation is born out by the overturned chair found across the dead man's feet. But nothing else in the room had been disturbed however. If Taylor saw his slayer and grappled with him, it is believed that he must have recognized him as an enemy. This belief leads to the abandonment of the burglar theory and the concentration of every effort upon finding an ancient enemy of the murdered picture director--some one perhaps who knew him in the old days in New York, before he changed his name from Tanner to Taylor. ...Today's activities by the police followed a night of fruitless endeavor to solve the murder mystery by detectives and deputy sheriffs, outstanding in the night's work was the detention and grilling of two well- known movie actors. In overcoat and muffler, with a cap pulled down over his forehead, George Milo, picture actor, strode up and down the sidewalk last night in front of 404-B South Alvarado street, the bungalow home of Taylor. He was enacting, against his will, a role he had often played for profit in the films--that of a 'genteel heavy.' Eyes unseen by him looked out from the shuttered windows of the bungalow across the court from Taylor's. Mrs. Douglas MacLean, wife of the movie star, was comparing Milo with the man she saw leaving the bungalow where Taylor was murdered. Meanwhile, in a closed automobile, parked a short distance away deputy sheriffs were firing questions at Henri Reineque, actor and friend of Milo. The questions concerned his whereabouts and that of the other film actor last Wednesday night. Milo and Reineque were taken into custody at 8 o'clock last night as they were alighting from Milo's automobile in front of the Lobban apartments, 1030 West Eighth street, where both live. Al Manning, chief deputy in charge of criminal investigations at the sheriff's office, drove to the Lobban with Deputy Sheriff Harvey Bell. They had traced Milo's automobile after a mysterious telephone message had been received at the sheriff's office to the effect that a Maxwell sedan with a certain number stood in front of Taylor's home the night of the murder. The number given by the anonymous informant was that of Milo's closed Maxwell. 'The boss wants to see you,' explained Manning, accosting the men. 'Who's the boss?' asked one. 'The sheriff,' replied Bell. The two actors made no protest as they were escorted to the sheriff's automobile and taken to the office. Here they were separated and both subjected to a severe grilling on the question of their whereabouts Wednesday night. Milo at first seemed worried by the questions. 'You were a close acquaintance of Mabel Normand, weren't you?' demanded one of the five or six deputies who surrounded him with a circle of accusing eyes. 'No,' replied Milo. 'I worked with her in 'The Slim Princess.' Aside from that I know nothing about her.' One of the deputies later ran up and shook an accusing finger in Milo's face. 'Don't you know you are suspected of murdering William Taylor?' he shouted at Milo. The actor's face showed instant relief and he broke into a smile. Then he reached over and shook hands with his questioner. 'That's a good joke,' he said. 'You really had me frightened for a while. I didn't know what you wanted me for. But if that's it, why it's too ridiculous to do anything about except laugh.' The officers were not satisfied with this denial and bundled Milo into an automobile. He was taken to the South Alvarado street bungalow court, where he was dressed as the mysterious stranger was supposed to have been and made to promenade in front of the place. Meanwhile Reineque was being subjected to an equally severe fire of questions. 'Where were you Wednesday night?' iterated all of his questioners in chorus. 'For heaven's sake! Give a man time to think,' replied Reineque, scratching his head. He came from Alsace-Lorraine and speaks with a slight accent. Finally, after Mrs. Douglas MacLean had failed to recognize Milo as the muffled stranger whom she saw leaving Taylor's house and after continued questioning had failed to elicit anything of importance from either of the movie actors, they were driven home by the deputy sheriffs and dismissed with apologies for the inconvenience caused them. Both men were warned, however, that they were under surveillance and told not to leave town. Police Captain Adams and Detectives Cline, Cahill and Cato were with the deputy sheriffs and assisted at the investigation last night. Milo, a handsome chap of the movie leading man type, was still somewhat staggered by his experience of last night, when he was seen today. He was able to summon a smile, however, at what he characterized as the 'ridiculous charge that I killed Taylor.' His screen history in Los Angeles connects him as an actor with several prominent women stars with whom he has worked in various pictures. These include Pauline Frederick, Theda Bara, Clara Kimball Young, Ruth Roland and Mabel Normand. Milo today reiterated the statement he made to the officers that he only knew Miss Normand through working with her in one picture. The actor is of French birth, but has spent most of his life in America. Besides being an actor, he is an athlete of prowess. He formerly toured in vaudeville with an acrobatic act, in which he was 'understander' and also posed in a leopard skin to show his unusual muscular development. ...The disappearance of a frilly diaphanous article of feminine apparel, which Peavey said had reposed for months in a box in one of Taylor's dresser drawers, was another grain of mystery in the case today. The valet happened to remember about the missing garment and informed the police. It was in its usual place up to the night of the murder. Peavey said he did not know who the owner of the garment was or why Taylor kept it.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Record	1922-02-06	...It was early Friday afternoon that Miss Minter came to view Desmond's body. She carried a dozen Black Prince roses intertwined with fern. As she saw the beloved form upon a couch she burst into tears and asked the friend who was with her to leave the room. The door closed behind him and for a few brief moments she was alone with Taylor. When Ivy H. Overholtzer, funeral director, opened the door a little later she was standing bowed over the body, her tears falling upon the gray silk robe in which it was clothed. Turning to the mantel upon which she had placed the roses she drew forth a single bud and laid it across Taylor's chest. Then, sobbing her grief, she left the room and was driven away in her car...
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Express	1922-02-06	On my word of honor, on my word of honor. Get it straight, please.' Mabel Normand emphasized that phrase all the time that she talked to me about William Desmond Taylor, the moving picture director who had been her friend and who was mysteriously murdered shortly after he had placed her in her auto Wednesday night. Miss Normand, nervous and shaken, heavy-lidded from loss of sleep and the grueling inquisition to which she has been subjected since the murder, came into her delightful sitting-room this morning and talked freely of her friendship with the dead man, and the rumors that since his death have arisen about him. 'I was never in love with Mr. Taylor in the way one means when they use the expression 'in love.' If he was in love with me, he never told me. 'There was no thought or talk of marriage between us. Our friendship was based on comradeship and understanding. In many ways he was wonderful. I loved to go out with him because he understood so well when my work forced me to break engagements, and because we loved so many of the same things, books, music, pictures.' 'Do you know any woman who might have been jealous of you, who might have loved Mr. Taylor?' I asked. 'On my word of honor, no,' she cried, beating her tiny hands together. 'Or any man who might have been jealous of the place that he occupied in your esteem?' Again the emphatic denial and the movement of the slender hands. 'It has been hinted that he had dope parties,' suggested another reporter. 'Did you ever hear of them?' 'Never, in God's world, never, on my word of honor. Billy was one of the cleanest and most temperate men in all his habits. He was sick, and very careful of his diet. He loved clean, simple pleasures, and he was a kind and thoughtful friend. 'Flowers? Yes, he sent them to me three times a week. He knew that I loved flowers. And--yes, he telegraphed me often when I was in New York, but not every night. His telegrams were sometimes about things he wanted me to get for him in New York, sometimes just efforts to keep me posted about things here. I bought golf balls for him and he looked after the welfare of my dog and often wired me that it was well. 'And, oh, please, say that I never heard of that pink nightgown, and that I always went to Mr. Taylor's dinners with a crowd.' 'Henry Peavey, the colored servant, said'-- 'He ought to be ashamed to say that I asked him about other girls going to Mr. Taylor's house,' Miss Normand burst out. 'Henry ought to be grateful to me. I saved him his job when Mr. Taylor wanted to fire him. I begged that Billy wouldn't fire him on a rumor which might be false. 'And say this, please, on my word of honor, I never spoke to Henry in my life except in Mr. Taylor's presence, and can you imagine my asking before Billy about other girls? Henry has told an awful big story. 'I hope they find my letters because they are just little messages about everyday things. I never did go to the house to search for them. I only went to show the police how the furniture had been arranged. 'I can't imagine anybody wanting to kill Billy. He was the kindest, most patient and tactful man I ever knew. I never knew him to lose his temper and, no, I never saw him show fear.' And so the little star rattled on, begging, explaining, replying to all questions with the utmost frankness and detail. 'She's worn out, poor little thing,' said A. McArthur, publicity manager for the Sennett studios. 'She wants to help clear up this mystery, but she needs rest terribly. We can't take her out of town. If we do everybody will say she ran away, and nobody will let her rest in town; the telephone goes every minute and the doorbell, too. 'The poor kid lost a friend when Taylor died, but she knows nothing about why or how he died. You can bet on that.'
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Herald	1922-02-06	...There was some friction in the police probe of the slaying today and it was reported that certain detectives had asked to be given other assignments rather than continue investigating the murder with asserted misunderstanding existing. Several detectives were inclined to the theory that the person who slew Taylor may have been mentally unbalanced, and qualified their remarks regarding that phase of the probe by discussing confidential reports obtained today from the mystery witness who called at detective headquarters and who was said to have stated he saw Sands near the scene of the slaying late Wednesday night. A clew regarding what became of the letters and telegrams said to have been in Taylor's dresser drawer, written by Mabel Normand, film actress and friend of the slain director, was given to the police today while the slaying was being investigated from the hour Taylor's dead body was found. Investigation was made of a report that after Taylor's death Miss Normand's letters were taken away by a visitor to the house. Considerable time was devoted to reviewing the occurrences at Taylor's residence following the finding of the body by Henry Peavey, negro valet- cook. It was pointed out that when aid for Detective Sergeant Tom Zeigler reached the bungalow court, fully a half hour after the report was received that Taylor had presumably died of natural causes, the house was virtually filled with strangers to the detectives who may have disturbed important evidence. The detectives who clung to the belief that Taylor was shot and killed in a 'love triangle' by a vengeance-seeking lover, or by a hired assassin, continued to direct their investigation today into the realms of stardom and several of the leading actors and actresses were questioned regarding the slain director's recent activities, his intimates, his asserted affairs of the heart and the source from which he obtained select liquors. Detectives Theodore Mailheau and Lloyd Yarrow, members of the police narcotic squad, investigated reports that Taylor was a close friend of several film luminaries said to be addicted to the use of narcotics. Taylor was not a drug addict, say the police, but may have had knowledge of drug peddlers supplying the alleged addicts...
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Herald	1922-02-06	Another interesting picture of the past life of the slain director was revealed today by Miss Neva Gerber, film actress, who was at one time engaged to marry Taylor. Miss Gerber declared that she had seen Taylor wrapped in spells of utter despondency on many occasions and that on several of these period he had expressed a wish to 'end it all.' She said that Taylor often complained of ill health, declaring that he could not eat anything, and that he was usually most despondent when he had just completed a picture upon which he had been working extremely hard.
Washington, DC	Washington, DC	Washington Post	1922-02-06	POLICE HOLD ACTOR IN FILM DEATH SIFT   Detain Cameraman Also for Questioning.   DRUG PEDDLER SOUGHT   Woman's Night Dress Figures in New Developments.   LATE CLEW HELD STRONGEST   Drug Peddler sought. Search for a drug peddler, upon whose trail the police said they were "getting warmer," and a woman's silken nightdress, said by Henry Peavey, colored houseman, to be missing from the apartments of William D. Taylor, slain film director, were the outstanding developments here tonight of the search for his slayer. The police were reticent as to the details concerning their search for the man, a peddler who was believed to have sought patrons for his contraband drugs among the employes of motion picture studios, but they intimated their belief he had attempted to make a delivery through Taylor to an actress who found it difficult to make her purchases in person.   The exact importance of the missing nightdress, which was pink, was not made plain. Peavey, however. was firm in his declaration that it had a regular place in Taylor's apartments and equally firm in his assertions that since his employer was slain he had been unable to find it.   Arrest Expected Soon. After the announcement of the search for the drug peddler, deputy  sheriffs left for an unnamed destination on what they termed the "most definit clew thus far discovered in the Taylor murder mystery." They  said they were going to interview "a certain party" and possibly make an arrest. This was the first active participation of the sheriffs forces in the case. The search for Edward F. Sands, missing butler of William D. Taylor, motion picture director, who was mysteriously murdered last Wednesday night, continued to be an important element of the investigation of Tayfor 's death, police said today.   Valet questioned Again. Henry Peavey, valet of Taylor, who found his employers body, eame to police headquarters again today and was questioned by detectives for  CONTINUED ON THIRD PAGE   POLICE HOLD ACTOR IN FILM DEATH SIFT   CONTINUED FROM FIRST PAGE. half hour.  It is understood he was asked for more detailed information concerning the arrangement of Tayor's furniture and other belongings in the apartments. Two other men whose names were not divulged, also were questioned at police headquarters. One of these men departed with detectives, who said merely they were going to check up on an angle of the case that had been previously investigated. The whereabouts of letters which Miss Mabel Normand, motion picture actdress, said she had written to Taylor, and which she said were missing from his apartments, continued to be an matter of suspicion today. It is believed that these letters and other papers could have been removed last Thursday morning, some time during the period when Taylor 's house was unguarded, while it was believed he ad died of natural causes. Miss Normand said she had seen the letters in the apartment a few days before the murder, and knew no reason way anyone should want them.   Other Clews Secret. A. L. Manning, head of the criminal investigation department of the sheriff's office, and several deputies were absent most of the day on a mission connected with the slaying. upon his return Manning said there had been certain developments he could not disclose at that time. His investigation today, he added, did not relates in any way to Sands. The district attorneys office also had men assigned to the case, working jointly with the police detective force.   Revenge, prompted by jealousy, remained apparently the most probable  motive for the alleged crime, investigators of the various departmentso  generally agreed. The possibility that the slayer was a frustrated blackmailer also was being considered. There was declared further to  be a mere chance that he was a burglar, surprised by Taylor, who fled after the shooting without attempting to remove any valuables.   Believe Slayer was Man. Capt. of Detectives David P. Adams, who is directing the police investigation, said everything in the case indicated that the slayer was a man. Whether the fact that Taylor had changed his name from William Cunningham Deane Tanner, by which he  was known in New York fourteen years ago had any bearing upon the case, had not been determined today according to the police. Investigators expressed themselves as at a loss to account for the disaprearance of Miss Normands letters. They declared, however, that they did not believe the letters would throw any light on the case. The "main issue" so far, one investigator said, was the whereabouts of the missing Valet, Sands, for a few days before the shooting.
Washington, DC	Washington, DC	Washington Post	1922-02-06	Actress Divorced Husband Said to Have Made Threats   Special to The Washington post. Loss Angeles, Calif., Feb. 5.-Adding new complications to the murder mystery which has stunned the motion picture world was the informa tion given to the police today that the divorced husband of a beautiful Hollywood screen actress might be able to aid in solving the mystery of who shot and killed William D. Taylor, noted film director and soldier of fortune, last Wednesday. This actress and Mr. Taylor, it was said, were very close friends and   were seen together frequently, but it was denied that there was an affair of the heart.  The husband, accord ing to the story told the police, was wildly jealous of his wife and quar rels over her association with certain well-known actors and actresses are said to have precipitated a divorce  action, the wife getting the decree several months ago.  At that time he is reported to have made threats, not only involving Mr. Taylor, but others in Hollywood. A search is now being made for this man, who has mysteriously dis  appeared.  A prominent motion picture actor who has been placed under surveilance until his movements before and after the crime can be thoroughly checked, is said to be a friend of his divorcee who was a friend of Taylor. Coincident with the uncovering this new clew, it was revealed that another name was used by Mr. Today as Melbourne McDowell, husband of the late Fanny Davenport, was looking over an old scrapbook, he came across the name of Cunningham Deane, whom he has often met many times since as William Desmond Taylor. When the Fanny Davenport company played in New York in 1894, according to Mr. McDowell, there was a handsome young Englishman playing one of the minor parts. The cast of characters showed that the actor who played Stradella, a noble in the play, was Cunningham Deane. Later in Boston and on tour all over the country during the years 189495-96, Cunningham Deane belonged to any Davenport casts.   Favorite with Players. "We all liked Deane," said Mr. McDowell. "He was a gentle young chap and a favorite in the company. I recognized him here, but he sort off fooled me at first, for the name of Taylor threw me off the track. Mr. Taylor was a great man. He was a soldier of fortune, but he won his  spurs. We all deeply regret his untimely end." According to Mr. McDowell, Mr. Taylor, who was said to be 45 years  old, must have been 52 at the time of his death. The new developments in the slaying enigma have tended to lessen suspicion against Edward F Sands, Mr. Taylor 's former valet, who openly boasted that he was going to "get" the film director. It was pointed out that while Sands robbed his employer of valuable gems and pawned them in Fresno and Sacramento, his actions  against his employer were for personal gain and it is not believed possible that a woman figured in his actions.
New York	New York	New York Times	1922-02-06	QUESTION AN ACTOR AND CAMERA MAN  IN TAYLOR MURDER After Two-Hour Examination in County Jail They Are Both Released OTHER CLUES FOLLOWED One Leads to a Drug Peddler who, it is Thought, Sold to Actress Through Taylor. MISSING EVIDENCE SOUGHT Some Clothing and Letters to Slain Man From Actress have Disappeared From His Home. LOS ANGELES, Feb. 5.-A motion picture actor and a camera man were brought to the Los Angeles County Jail here tonight for questioning as to their possible knowledge of clues to the murder of William Desmond Taylor, film director. After a two-hour examination they were released. Their names were not made public. The make-up was still on the actor's face when he arrived at the jail indicating, officers stated, that the Deputy Sheriffs who had brought him in, Al Manning, chief criminal deputy, and Harvey Bell, were in great haste to learn his story. The men were located at a motionpicture studio in the Hollywood district of Los Angeles, it was stated. After they had been questioned separately for two hours, the officers started back to Hollywood with the actor to give him an opportunity to make good his declaration to the deputies that he could account for his movements last Wednesday night, the night Taylor was slain. Apparently he did so for the release followed. Another angle was the story told by an associate of the dead director that a former employe had been heard to exclaim, when he heard of the slaying: "Bill Taylor got only what he deserved." The investigation showed, the police said, that this man had been employed by the Famous Players-Lasky concern. working under Taylor, in a minor capacity. One day he was drunk when he went on duty. Taylor ordered him removed from the place. The next day the man returned, only to find an order from Taylor that he should not be admitted. The police say they had begun a search for him. The Day's Other Clues. Search for a drug peddler, upon whose trail the police said they were "getting warmer," and the absence of a woman's silken night dress, said by Henry Peavey, colored houseman, to be missing from the apartments of Taylor, the other developments here tonight of the search for his slayer. The police were reticent as to the details concerning their search for the man, a peddler who was believed to have sought patrons for his contraband drugs among the employes of motion picture studios, but they intimated their belief he had attempted to make a delivery through Taylor to an actress who found it difficult to make her purchases in person. This was the first active participation of the Sherifff's forces in the case. The exact importance of the missing night dress, which was pink, was not made plain. Peavey, however, was firm in his declaration that it had a regular place in Taylor's apartments, and equally firm in his assertions that since his employer was slain he had been unable to find it. Letters Are Also Missing. The whereabouts of letters which Miss Mabel Normand, motion picture actress, said she had written to Taylor and which she said were missing from his apartments continued to be a matter of suspicion today. It is believed that these letters and other papers could have been removed last Thursday morning some time during the period when Taylor's house was unguarded, while it was believed he had died of natural causes. Miss Normand said she had seen the letters in the apartment a few days before the murder, and knew no reason why any one should want them. She said she would be willing to publish anything they contained. Investigators expressed themselves as at a loss to account for the disappearance of Miss Normand's letters. They declared, however, that they did mot believe the letters would throw any light on the case, The "main issue" so far, one investigator said, was the whereabouts of the missing valet Sands for a few days before the shooting. The search for Sands continued today. Checking of the various angles of the case among members of the motion picture colony and other friends and acquaintances of Taylor almost invariably led to some mention of Sands's name, according to detectives. Police said they had had several clues to Sands's whereabouts, but that these had resulted in disappointments. Two other men besides Peavey, the negro servant, whose names were not divulged, were also questioned at Police Headquarters. One of these men departed with detectives, who said that they were merely going to check up on an angle of the case that had been previously investigated. Tells of Feeling Toward Sands. Tending to show the alleged feeling of Taylor toward Edward F. Sands, or Edward Fitz Strathmore, his former butler, whom the director had charged with a felony, was a further statement today by Henry Peavey, Taylor's colored houseman. "Not long ago," says Peavey, "I was showing Mr. Taylor a coat I had bought.'That looks like one Sands stole from me, he said.'Oh, if I could only get my hands on that fellow.'" Melbourne MacDowell, actor, husband of the late Fannie Davenport, looked over an old scrapbook today and then gave to the press his belief that Taylor, under the name of Cunningham Deane,  played with the Fannie Davenport company at the Fifth Avenue Theatre in  New York in 1894, and later in Boston and during a tour of the country in 1895 and 1896. Taylor's body, dressed in the uniform of a British officer he wore in the World War, was viewed today by many friends and others at an undertaking establishment, where it will lie until the funeral services Tuesday at St. Paul's Episcopal Pro-Cathedral. Many flowers were sent there, to await transfer after the services, to the cemetery vault, where the body will be held until the arrivel of the Director's daughter, who has been in school in Mamaroneck, N. Y. Pallbearers will be William C. De Mille, Frank Seal, George Melford, Arthur Hoyt, James Young, Frank Lloyd, David Hartford and Charles Eyton, all widely known in motion pictures. Members of the British Overseas Club will attend the funeral in a body and a squad of former Canadian soldiers will fire a salute over the casket. Lester Wing, a Chinese, former chauffeur for Taylor, said today that the director once told him: " I never really loved but one woman. She was my stage partner. I was engaged to her, but she died before we could be married-and all never marry another woman." Engaged to Neva Gerber. The only woman whom Taylor called upon often during Wings service with him was Neva Gerber, film actress, who said here Friday she and Taylor had once been engaged to be marrled. But, while he and Miss Gerber were together two or three times a week, according to Wing, Taylor passed most of his time alone. Winifred Kingston, film actress, characterized tonight as " ridiculous," the report she had been engaged to marry Taylor, a rumor that spread after it was discovered that the only framed photograph found in the director's apartment was one of her. Miss Kingston and Taylor had been acquainted, she said, a fact she attributed to their both being of British birth. She said he told her something of his domestic affairs. I also learned something of Sands, the Butler," said Miss Kingston. "When Edward Knoblock was living at Mr. Taylor's home, Sands, at various times, bought a considerable amount of lingerie, which, I understand, he gave to a young girl a very young creature in whom he was interested and who lived at home with her mother. All of this he charged to Mr: Taylor's account at a Los Angeles department store, he was told. This naturally enraged the director when he returned from abroad. On day, to show his affection and regard for Mr. Taylor, Sands drew up a contract stating he would be the director's servant for life, would always be his slave. I don't know what happened to the document, but I do know Mr. Taylor laughed about it. The search through the director's belongings today brought forth messages and notes from many film actresses, including Blanche Sweet and Glorla Swanson. Whether the fact that Taylor had changed his name from William Cunningham Deane-Tanner, by which he was known in New York fourteen years ago, had any bearing upon the case had not been determined today, according to the police. JUNEAU, Alaska, Feb. 5.-William Desmond Taylor, motion-picture director slain at Los Angeles, played in his own stock company at Fairbanks, Skagway and other Alaska towns during the Winter of 1909, according to residents here. He once was interested in mining ventures near Dawson and in the Klondike district. Knew Taylor as Deane-Tanner. Several persons in New York who knew William Desmond Taylor as Deane-Tanner, a dealer in antiques, before he abandoned his wife and child in 1908, had been aware for some time before his death that the two men were the same. They had seen him when he was acting in moving pictures, and some of his former friends wrote to him, but without receiving a reply. Frank I. Sparrell of Westfield, N. J., was one of those who had been associated in business with Deane-Tanner in New York, and who recognized him years after his disappearance as Taylor, the moving picture actor and later the  director. He was known as "Pete" Deane-Tanner to Sparrell and other men who were with A. J. Crawford in an antique shop in Fifth Avenue. DeaneTanner's brother Dennis, who disappeared four years after William went away, also worked for Crawford. "After being with the firm a couple of years Dennis left to go with Vernay," said Mr. Sparrell. "'Pete' was considering going with Vernay, but changed his mind and stayed with Crawford. "We all knew and liked'Pete,' who was President of the concern. I noticed as we all did the spells of terrible facial neuralgia, which he had at various times, and also lapses of memory. I saw him before he went to the races in October, 1908, and he seemed to be all right. At that time Mr. Crawford was  in Europe, and Deane-Tanner was running the business. When he didn't show up we all thought it was strange, and I  went to call on his wife at their home in Larchmont. She was considerably broken up about his disappearance, and had not heard from him since he left his home to go to the office and later to the races. "Pete" was a very reserved, cultured, quiet chap: not a heavy drinker, although he was a member of clubs where the members drank occasionally. His home life, as I had seen it many times, was most happy with his wife and little girl. "The appearance of'Pete' as the Mexican hero-horseman in'Captain Alvarez,' was the first intimation we had that he was alive. Some of his intimate friends wrote to him, but so far as I know, he never answered their letters. I have never seen him since he disappeared. "His business affairs were in excellent condition when he left. He had a comfortable, though not an elaborate home, and he was getting a salary of $10,000, which was considerable in those days. We all believe with his former wife, that he was suffering from some delusion or loss of memory when he disappeared. He was one of the finest men I have ever known." The principal link between Mabel Normand and Taylor was a liking for books, according to P. M. Asher, representative of Miss Normand's company, who recently returned from California. Taylor was looked upon in the colony as a man of unusual scholarship and knowledge of art and literature, Mr. Asher said, and he stood out in this respect so greatly that his advice was always sought on matters in which his general knowledge made him unusually useful. Miss Normand had learned much from him, and read many books which Taylor suggested, Mr. Asher declared. Taylor was seldom seen in the usual haunts of the moving-picture people of the colony, he said, and never in those of the gayer set. He kept much to himself, although he had many friends.  
Washington, DC	Washington, DC	Washington Post	1922-02-06	Anxious to Hide "Blessed Baby" Letters to Taylor   Special to The Washington Post. Los Angeles, Feb. 6.-"I sought those letters and hoped to get them before they reached the scrutiny of others. I admit this, but it was for only one purpose, to prevent their terms of affection being misconstrued. "Just in a jest, Mr. Taylor called me "blessed baby." It started at dinner parties we attended together, and just to tease him I called him-this great big. stern-minded man-'Baby,' in return. These terms were used in our letters strictly in fun and I fear, will be misunderstood." This is the reason Mabel Normand, film star, gave tonight that she sought so earnestly the missives exchanged between her and the slain motion picture director, William Desmond Taylor, after the inquest Saturday.
Washington, DC	Washington, DC	Washington Post	1922-02-06	Taylor Said to Have Been Timekeeper for Gold Firm.   Santa Barbara, Calif., Feb. 5.-During most of the period between the disappearance of William Desmond Taylor from New York in 1908 and the time he entered the employment of a motion picture company in Los Angeles in 1912, he was working as time keeper for the Yuken Gold Company in Yukon territory, according to George Morrison, city engineer. Morrison said Taylor went to San Francisco from New York early in 1909 and from there was sent to the Yukon. He remained there until some time in 1912, according to Morrison, who was hydraulic engineer for the company during that time. He then went under the name of William Desmond Taylor, but he told Morrison, of whom he made a confidant, that that was not his real name. He also told Morrison, according to the letter, that he left New York because of an overwhelming burden of debt. Contracted while he was an art dealer there. Mrs. Potter Palmer. Chicago society leader, now dead, was his personal backer, he told Morrison. Juneau, Alaska, Feb. 5.-William Desmond Taylor, motion picture director slain at Los Angeles, played in his own stock company at Fairbanks. Skagway and other Alaska towns during the winter of 1909, according to residents here. He once was interrested in mining ventures near Dawson and in the Klondike district.