Omaha	Nebraska	Omaha Bee	1922-02-04	Nothing shown on the screen has so far exceeded in weirdness the things actually done by the movie players.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-04	Woman Tells Of Seeing Man Acting Suspiciously An excellent example of habitual observation was brought to light yesterday when Mrs. Ida Garrow, a modiste living at the Rose of Sharon Apartments, told Examiner investigators that on Wednesday night as she was walking down Ocean View avenue, at the intersection of Alvarado street, she noticed a man acting in a very peculiar manner. 'It was about EIGHT THIRTY, OR POSSIBLY TWENTY MINUTES OF NINE,' said Mrs. Garrow yesterday, 'Wednesday evening I was hurrying to my club which meets at the corner of Grand View and Ocean View avenue. I was late for a class that was studying Hebrew which I did not want to miss, but as I have trained my observational faculties in the study of astrology. It is without voluntary effort that I perceive whatever comes within the range of vision. 'As I came to Alvarado street, I saw a tall, slender, smooth shaven policeman, whose face I would instinctively recognize if I were to see him again, walking toward Ocean View avenue. Walking with him was another man, to whom I did not pay particular attention, because my curiosity was aroused by the peculiar actions of a man who was coming toward me a few feet in front of the policeman. Although the policeman was not paying the slightest attention to this man, the man was glancing back apprehensively over his shoulder, and at times looking in away from the street which would be directly in toward the court where the body of Mr. Taylor was found. 'As the policeman got closer to this man, the man crossed the street, and I noticed as he crossed that he was short and stout and wore a long overcoat, but there was the shadow of a building falling at such an angle that I could not determine whether he wore a cap or a hat.' Who was the policeman walking down Alvarado street at 8:30 or 8:45, and what did he see? This slight clue given by a careful observer may lead to very important developments in the mysterious murder whose points are now baffling the keenest detectives of the city.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-04	Mary Miles Minter talked yesterday at length on the subject uppermost in the minds of most members of Hollywood's film colony--the mysterious murder of William Desmond Taylor, noted film director. Seated in the little home in Hollywood in the presence of her mother, Mrs. Selby (sic) and her grandmother, Mrs. Mary Miles, the youthful screen star discussed intimately the details of her acquaintance with the man whose assassination shook the city Thursday morning. AND SHE DENIES, TOO, THAT SHE EVER WAS ENGAGED TO HIM OR THAT HE EVER HAD ASKED HER TO MARRY HIM. 'He looked on me as a mere child,' Miss Minter said. 'I could speak for hours, extolling his virtues and those qualities which he had that endeared him to his many friends--and then not be able to do him justice.' 'Married?' She repeated the interviewer's question. 'Married? I'm sure he wasn't, or he surely would have told me. We were such good friends.' Miss Minter had not seen Taylor for several months, she said, except perhaps on one or two occasions when they had passed each other on the street in their motors. 'After we came back from Europe, we just couldn't drag him away from his work,' she continued. 'He seemed to be wrapped up in it.' Discussing the report that Miss Normand and Taylor had been engaged at the time of his death, Miss Minter said she knew nothing of it. 'I hadn't heard of a romance between them,' she said, 'and I don't think the report is true. If it is true that he asked her to be his wife--well, I'm glad that he and Mabel were such good friends. She is a lovely girl. She is frank and earnest, and if she wishes to do a thing she does it. That's what I admire in her most.' She showed interest in the search which is being made for Edward F. Sands, Taylor's former valet. 'But it would be unfair to accuse him of the crime, without knowing,' she concluded. 'It is possible that some crank or demented person committed the crime. No one seems to know, except the person who did it. And whoever it was doesn't seem particularly eager to tell.'
New York	New York	New York Herald	1922-02-04	...Another report brought forward in motion picture circles here was that the director and Miss Normand had feared trouble of some sort and that they had made plans secretly to have a wedding to head it off. Miss Adla St. John [sic], writer on motion picture topics, who has just returned from a trip to the coast, said she had not heard of such premonitions. 'Mr. Taylor was one of the quietest and best liked men in the motion picture colony,' she said. 'His death came as a sudden shock to me, as it did to all his friends here. I don't know of his having had an enemy. Every player was delighted every time he heard he was going to be under Mr. Taylor's direction.'
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-04	...Of almost equal interest in the development of the investigation was the statement of Mrs. Earl Tiffany, wife of Taylor's chauffeur, that she saw Edward F. Sands, ex-secretary-valet of the murdered director, now sought as a witness, at Sixth and Figueroa Streets Tuesday afternoon last [the day prior to the murder] at 1:20 o'clock. ...The search for Sands continued with unabated intensity. He is said to have returned to Los Angeles Tuesday and uttered this threat: 'I am here to get Bill Taylor.' His intimate knowledge of Taylor's double identity was revealed in startling fashion late yesterday when in Fresno it was learned that Sands had there pawned jewelry stolen from Taylor and that he had given the name 'William Deane-Tanner,' asserted to be Taylor's true name. ...The police are assured beyond peradventure that the man who pawned the jewelry in Fresno, using the true name of the owner in a spirit of malicious triumph, was Edward Sands. There is something in this very circumstance which to the officers is itself a flood of light coming out of the darkness. The stealing and forgery indulged in by Sands did not convey the spirit of this piece of treachery; they might have been only for gain. But now that the Fresno episode is brought up from the obscurity of a dark little hole-in- the-wall pawn shop to be made plain in all its details, a new element appears. This new element is the pronounced unfriendliness of Sands, which takes on the aspect of a sinister and silent threat. The malice is further revealed in what seems to have been a persistent campaign of Sands to annoy the director. From Fresno he sent him a pawn ticket, a ticket issued on valuables stolen from Taylor on which money had been raised. Still another pawn ticket came through the mail from Sacramento. With this was the letter signed 'Alias Jimmy V.' These were derisive thrusts at Taylor; from some motive which has not been revealed the thief and forger was trying to torture the victim of his crimes. ...Something of the description of this man was learned yesterday by The Examiner from A. A. Tomlinson, an accountant of 1022 West Fortieth Place. 'The true name of this man,' said Tomlinson, 'is not Sands but Strathmore. I recognized him by his picture in this morning's Examiner. 'He enlisted in the army during the war as Edward Fitz Strathmore and was assigned to Columbus Barracks, Ohio. I was then head of the finance office and upon learning that Strathmore had been a chief petty officer in the navy I asked that he be transferred to my department, which was done. 'On October 4, 1919, Strathmore forged my name to a Government check for $475 and tried to buy a motorcycle with it. He failed to carry out this scheme, but escaped. At the same time he forged the commanding officer's name to a discharge. He has been wanted for desertion. 'On July 4, 1920, I met him on Alvarado Street. He told me that he was expecting to get work with the street car company. I notified the police, but he disappeared. 'During his service with me at Columbus Barracks, Strathmore often boasted of the crimes he had committed. I did not believe him then, but thought it was a case of a young fellow drawing on his imagination. 'Once I asked him what he would do if he were in a dangerous situation. He said he would shoot his way out.'
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-04	Additional details of the dual life led by William Desmond Taylor, motion picture director, murdered Wednesday night, were revealed last night when The Examiner located his sister-in-law, Mrs. Ada P. Deane-Tanner, in Monrovia. It was an extraordinary recitation which Mrs. Tanner related regarding the dead man. His real name, she said, was William Desmond [sic] Deane-Tanner and it was his brother, Dennis, that she married. Only twice in her life had she ever seen this mysterious figure, known to Hollywood and to the picture world as William D. Taylor. Once was on the birth of her daughter, 13 years ago, in New York city, when he came to see his brother's child and wife on her hospital bed. The other time was in Los Angeles, six years ago, when she went to the studio to find him. According to this woman's story, as she told it in her little Monrovia home last night, William D. Taylor, the director, during the past six years and up to his death absolutely refused to admit he was her brother-in-law, and yet, when her health broke down a [sic] years ago he began sending her a monthly allowance, which she was receiving regularly up to the time of his death. He wouldn't admit that he was her relative but he supported her, though never seeing her. A more astounding part of the story is Mrs. Deane-Tanner's recital of the manner in which her own husband in 1912 disappeared from sight never to be seen again. 'I don't know whether he is alive today or not,' she said. 'William D. Taylor's brother left me for the office one day and never was heard from or seen since. 'I asked Mr. Taylor, as he called himself here, about my husband's disappearance in letters to him, but he said that he had not (in 1921) seen or heard from my husband for fourteen years. This I know wasn't so, as my husband was by my side when my brother-in-law called on me at the birth of my daughter, twelve years before, in 1921, now thirteen years ago.' Mrs. Deane-Tanner refused to say what her husband's business was, but intimated that he had a considerable income. When he disappeared, she said, she spent a small fortune trying to find him, in detective bills and in other ways, but though she had the earth scoured to the best of her ability in an effort to trace the man, she was never able to get an inkling of what happened to him in those minutes between his leaving their home and the time when he should have--but never did-- arrive at his office... When Mrs. Deane-Tanner six years ago heard from a friend here that her brother-in-law was in Hollywood under an assumed name, she went to the studio to find him. She finally, she said, secured an interview with him, but he persistently refused to admit he was Deane-Tanner, though she was positive he was the same man who stood above her bedside an smiled at her new-born baby. So she left and had nothing more to do with Taylor-Tanner until her health began to fail a year ago. She had a 12-year-old daughter with her and was in need of funds, having spent all she had searching for her husband and educating her daughter. So she again went to Taylor or Tanner, this time writing him and telling him of her predicament. He replied to her, again denying that he had ever been Tanner, but at the same time he sent her a check and ever since has been giving an allowance.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Times	1922-02-04	...Mrs. Deane-Tanner in Monrovia said the last check from Mr. Taylor came about January 20, last. She said she came to Monrovia nine years ago and got in touch with him six years ago, appealing to him for help.
London	England	London Times	1922-02-04	What the police regard as an important clue was discovered this afternoon. Detectives are investigating 'a dope party' given at Hollywood recently, at which cocaine and other drugs were served instead of drinks. Two women, both film actresses, stated that they quarreled over Taylor and fought, ripping the clothes from each other's bodies. Taylor was not present at the party. The police theory is that Taylor's murder was contrived by one of the women, to whose advances he had refused to respond...
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Times	1922-02-04	A motion picture actress whose name has thus far not been mentioned in connection with the murder of William Desmond Taylor, famous film director, late last night was the center of investigation of the combined forces of detectives detailed to solve the mystery of the slaying. Mr. Taylor was shot to death within a few minutes after Mabel Normand left his home last Wednesday night. For almost four hours the detectives closely questioned former employees of Mr. Taylor in an endeavor to check details of their new theory of the crime, which, they still believe, was inspired by a revenge motive with jealousy as the probable cause. Throughout the long questioning, which was conducted in the Detective Bureau of Central Police Station, every attempt was made to find out all facts regarding the past life and recent movements of Mr. Taylor. His friendship with such prominent motion-picture stars as Mabel Normand, Mary Miles Minter and Claire Windsor was discussed in detail. Many new features of his life were disclosed during the examination of these former employees. With the motion-picture actress mentioned last night the name of a director also was linked. The officers believe these two persons may be able to aid materially in clearing up the case. Throughout this investigation, however, efforts of the detectives were also directed toward finding Edward F. sands, former secretary and who was made defendant in a complaint in which Mr. Taylor charged him with forgery. Sands was in Los Angeles, the police believe, both on the day of the shooting and also the day before. Another witness saw him several days before the crime, they say. From Mrs. Earl Tiffany, wife of a former chauffeur of Mr. Taylor, it was learned she saw Sands last Tuesday, the day before the shooting. This meeting was in another part of the city, far removed from 404-B South Alvarado street, where Mr. Taylor, shot in the back, was found Thursday morning. Another witness is said to have seen Sands on South Alvarado street the night of the murder. These clews have caused the investigators to redouble their efforts to find the former employee, because they believe he can throw valuable light on the life of Mr. Taylor. Earl Tiffany, who was chauffeur for Mr. Taylor until a short time after Tiffany says he told Mr. Taylor he believed he would keep a record of the trips on which he took him, also was questioned. Mr. Tiffany added many clews to the few already in the possession of the detectives. He related in detail, as he remembered the incidents, many supposed facts concerning Mr. Taylor's friendship for Mary Miles Minter, film star whom he formerly directed, then for Mabel Normand, also an actress, and before either of them another woman whose activities are now being investigated by the police. After Mr. Tiffany was questioned, Harry Fellows, assistant director for Mr. Taylor and brother of Howard Fellows, Mr. Taylor's last chauffeur, was taken to the room with the detectives. He was closeted for a long time. In the meanwhile his wife and sister-in-law waited impatiently outside for him. Mr. Fellows is understood to have told the officers he could remember few details that might aid them. He formerly was chauffeur fro Mr. Taylor, but is asserted to have declared he could not recall the names of some of the persons about whom the detectives wanted to know. Mr. Tiffany was chauffeur for Mr. Taylor until last July. He had considerable experience as a chauffeur for another prominent motion-picture man during an exciting night just preceding an action for divorce filed by the latter's wife. Because of this experience, Mr. Tiffany says, he remarked to Mr. Taylor one day that he believed he would keep a diary on the trips he made so that he could know just where he went every day and would have record of it. Mr. Taylor said nothing, Mr. Tiffany says, but in a fortnight told Mr. Tiffany he would not require his services longer. Mr. and Mrs. Tiffany, both of whom know Sands personally and are familiar with his habits and opinions, believe he will be able to throw little light on the case except inasmuch as Mr. Taylor's past life may aid in solving the mystery. In telling of the incidents in Mr. Taylor's life which he observed, Mr. Tiffany said Mary Miles Minter formerly was a favored friend of Mr. Taylor. No other girl appeared to enter into Mr. Taylor's attentions. Later, a change came about, according to Mr. Tiffany, and on occasions when Miss Minter called at the Taylor house, Sands told her Mr. Taylor was not at home, when in fact, he was. About this time Mabel Normand came in for more and more attention from Mr. Taylor, the chauffeur's story continues. She was still the ruling favorite among the friends of Mr. Taylor, when Mr. Tiffany left his employ. In connection with this fact, Henry Peavey, negro houseman of the slain man, and who was questioned by the police again yesterday, said Mr. Taylor told him that if Miss Normand telephoned between 5 and 6 o'clock on the night of the slaying he was home, but if anyone else called he was not. Detective Sergeants Herman Cline, Winn, Murphy, Cato and Cahill, were active in the further questioning that took place last night... The name of Claire Windsor, motion-picture star who once was reported engaged to Charlie Chaplin, was thrust into the investigation when it was learned that she had been out riding and to a dinner with Mr. Taylor a week or so before the murder. It was the first time she had ever been out with him, her mother stated yesterday. The officers expressed a wish to ascertain whether she knew of any possible enemies, but Miss Windsor could not be located. The Coroner's inquest will be held this morning at 10 o'clock at the Ivy Overholtzer undertaking establishment. Several film celebrities have been subpoenaed to appear at the inquest. Mabel Normand, film actress, again was questioned by the police. No additional information was obtained, it was stated. Miss Normand relating again that she left Mr. Taylor's flat about 7:45 or 7:50 o'clock on the night of the murder and that Mr. Taylor accompanied her to her automobile. In this she was corroborated by her negro [sic] chauffeur, William Davis, also subpoenaed for the inquest. Mr. Taylor was shot, the police believe, within a very few minutes after Miss Normand left. The District Attorney's office swung into action in the case when a survey of the premises was made under the direction of Chief Dep. Dist.-Atty. Doran. Investigators from that office also were working on the mystery. Information was sought from Mary Miles Minter, a film-actress friend, who rushed to the house, becoming almost hysterical when she confirmed the report she had received Thursday morning that Mr. Taylor was murdered. Little information of value was obtained from her. The efforts to locate Miss Windsor yesterday assumed a peculiar turn. At her home her mother stated Miss Windsor was out on location with Marshall Neilan. At the studios of Mr. Neilan it was stated he was on location, but that Miss Windsor was not. Her mother said Miss Windsor had been with Mr. Taylor recently, but that for the last week has been very busy on location, being compelled to work late at night and into the early morning. For this reason she has been sleeping at the studio, and had not been home except at rare intervals, she stated. Charles Maigne, director at the Lasky studio, was closeted for more than an hour yesterday afternoon with Captain of Detectives Moffatt. The nature of the conference was not divulged. The motion-picture colony yesterday continued to seethe with the mystery of how and why Mr. Taylor, one of the leading figures in the industry, was murdered. Many rumors and reports connecting names of film stars in a way tending to show they may know something of the motives of the slayer were received during the day by the investigators...
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Times	1922-02-04	Witnesses at the inquest will include many nationally known persons who have been interviewed by police detectives concerning their knowledge of the crime. Those subpoenaed yesterday by Detective Sergt. Jack Wallis include the following: Mabel Normand, one of the best-known comediennes in the motion-picture profession and who was the last known person to have seen and talked with Mr. Taylor before his death. She had visited his home to get a book he had purchased for her and left his apartment only a few minutes before the time of his murder. Mrs. Douglas MacLean, wife of a widely known motion-picture star, whose front door is only a few paces from Mr. Taylor's apartment. Mrs. MacLean, upon hearing a shot, opened her door, looked out and saw a man leaving the Taylor apartments. She is the only person who has given the investigators an unquestioned first-hand description of the slayer. Charles Eyton, general manager of the Famous Players-Lasky Corporation, and the fourth husband of Kathlyn Williams, also a motion-picture star. Mr. Eyton, a personal friend of the slain man, was one of the first persons to arrive at the Taylor apartments and conducted an inventory of the murdered man's property. Verne Dumas, wealthy oil man, who also was one of the first neighbors to enter the apartment. William Davis, Miss Normand's chauffeur, who drove her to Mr. Taylor's home. His story corroborates that of his employer. Henry Peavey, colored servant employed by Mr. Taylor, who first discovered the body and who will relate incidents pertaining to the finding of the body. Howard Fellows, chauffeur for Mr. Taylor, who is expected to corroborate the time of the murder. Mr. Fellows visited the Taylor apartment at 8 p.m. on the night of the crime and though the home was lighted in all rooms he received no response at the door. He later called his employer on the telephone but failed to arouse anybody. E. J. Jessrund [sic], owner of the apartment occupied by Mr. Taylor and a neighbor who was one of the first to respond to Peavey's cries of 'murder.' Autopsy Surgeon Wagner, who will relate his findings in diagnosing the cause of Mr. Taylor's death.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Times	1922-02-04	Did William D. Taylor, murdered film director of nation-wide fame, fear the fate in store for him and take every precaution the last few days of his life to surround his movements and whereabouts with utmost secrecy? This was the question asked yesterday by the investigators in their effort to reconstruct the circumstances that led to the slaying of the famous director in his palatial flat on Alvarado street last Wednesday night. A clew that led the officers to believe Taylor was uneasy about something in the days immediately preceding the shooting, was given to Detective Sergeants Cline, Murphy, Winn and Ziegler, yesterday, by Henry Peavey, colored porter and housekeeper for Taylor. Peavey was taken to the detective bureau of Central Police Station yesterday afternoon and there questioned by the officers on the case. His examination followed that of Howard Fellows, chauffeur for Mr. Taylor, and from information obtained by the officers from the two men, who knew intimate details of the slain film man's life, the officers obtained important tips. The most significant part of the new statement made by Peavey yesterday was that Taylor left the house on a mysterious call Wednesday afternoon, leaving the automobile behind. 'Mr. Taylor left the house about 5 o'clock, saying he wanted to walk, and leaving strict orders not to answer any telephone inquiries to the house with one exception,' said Peavey. 'He said that if Miss Normand called to tell her he would be back after 6 o'clock, but instructed me to tell everyone else he was out and that I did not know where he was or when he would be back.' From the few papers and documents obtained by them at the Taylor flat, the officers working on the case yesterday sought to glean, if possible, some clew as to where Taylor went when he left the house Wednesday afternoon. Names and addresses, recorded by Mr. Taylor, of a number of well-known persons in the film world and in business circles here are in the possession of the police, and a thorough check of these will be made in an effort to trace accurately and completely every movement of the slain film director on the days before his murder.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Times	1922-02-04	What may prove to be an important clew in the hunt for the murderer of William D. Taylor was placed before the police last night in a report that a large automobile of striking appearance was seen in the vicinity of the Taylor home the night of the slaying. This automobile, according to the reports to the police, was an expensive car painted a chocolate-brown shade. The automobile, according to the reports, was seen to drive up to the Taylor home late in the afternoon and remain there for some time. It left the corner of Alvarado and Maryland streets a few minutes after the automobile of Miss Mabel Normand drove up. A peculiar part of this episode is a conflicting report from another source that an automobile described as a closed car, dark green in color, was the vehicle in question. The time and location given in the two reports check in every detail, but the make of car and color of the bodies are different. 'We are going to check every possible angle of this case,' Detective Sergeant Herman Cline said yesterday. 'There are a great many conflicting reports given us and for the first few days it is a large task to distinguish the important from what has no connection with the case. If we can verify certain facts laid before us in connection with this murder, then the description of these two cars will become very important.' This is the only comment the officers on the case would make on this phase of the investigation. The importance of the clew about the automobile described is that the police believe they may be able to trace the owners and from them learn either of visits to Mr. Taylor's apartment or about persons seen loitering in the vicinity of the place.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Times	1922-02-04	The District Attorney's office swung into action yesterday in an attempt to solve the mystery of the murder of William Desmond Taylor and also to lay a foundation for future prosecution in the event the slayer is captured. At the same time the police searched Mr. Taylor's apartments at 404-B South Alvarado street, and took charge of letters, papers and documents that might serve to thrown some light on the slain film director's affairs. Chief Dep. Dist.-Atty. Doran and Investigator Contreras made a thorough search of the apartments, and canvass of the vicinity. Albert E. Timmons of the County Surveyor's office and two assistants, P. W. Atkins and R. B. Heuer, drew plans of each room and the territory contiguous to the residence. Detective Sergeants Herman W. Cline, Winn and Murphy, represented the police department in the search of the premises. Papers belonging to Mr. Taylor were taken to Central Police Station and carefully examined. The arrangement of the furniture in the room where the fatal shot was fired was not disturbed, as the officers stated a careful scrutiny would be made for possible finger prints. This phase of the investigation applies particularly in the chair in which Mr. Taylor was possibly sitting when shot, and which was found turned over across his legs. Mr. Taylor's apartments were tastefully furnished. There were books in profusion, mostly of a philosophical and sociological trend, numerous photographs of persons in the motion-picture colony, relics of the war, and much art work and bric-a-brac. The police yesterday questioned four persons found by The Times who had seen a man believed to be the slayer go to the Taylor residence before the shooting and leave the vicinity a few minutes after the bullet had been fired. The time of the murder has been fixed by police at between 7:49 and 8:15 p.m. Wednesday. L. A. Grant and Floyd Hartley, service station men, at Sixth and Alvarado streets, stated that a man had inquired of them where W. D. Taylor lived shortly before 6 o'clock. They directed him to the Alvarado street address, and he left. The description of this man corresponds with that of a man who boarded an inbound West First-street car at the Maryland-avenue stop, at either 7:54 or 8:25 p.m. Motorman R. S. Woodward and Conductor E. W. Dascomb took notice of the passenger because it was the first stop they had made on Maryland street for months. The man was described by these four persons as about five feet and nine or ten inches tall, 26 or 27 years old and weighing between 155 and 165 pounds. He had dark hair and wore a dark suit and either a light hat or cap. ...Floyd Hartley yesterday was unable to identify a picture of Sands as the man who inquired at the oil station. He was inclined to think they were different individuals, but was not positive. While the revenge and jealousy theories appear to be the most plausible thus far in the investigation the police are not overlooking the possibility of a blackmail angle. This factor is being probed by detectives detailed to the case. It is considered possible that the slayer attempted to extort money from Mr. Taylor and when refused or threatened with arrest, he shot to kill. An open checkbook on Mr. Taylor's writing desk and a pen with fresh ink on it might be considered part of a ruse by Mr. Taylor to 'stall off' the murderer until the police could be advised. The story that a woman is involved in the slaying--supplying the motive of jealousy--is seriously entertained by the police. Although the slain man led a fairly studious life it is known that he had a wide circle of women acquaintances and that some of them were visitors to his home. An enraged suitor who had been discarded might very easily have carried out this plan, it is believed, to eliminate Mr. Taylor as a rival. In order to ferret out a revenge motive, for some real or fancied wrong, the police say they will have to trace back the incidents in Mr. Taylor's life. He led a varied and exciting career that took him to many out-of-the- way places of the globe. Investigators feel confident that he must have incurred some bitter enmity during his activities and travels.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-04	Mute evidence of the tender affection which existed between Ethel Daisy Taylor, 14-year-old daughter of the slain film director, William Desmond Taylor, and her father, was found by The Examiner yesterday. Inscribed on a page and a half of note paper, written in typical school girl chatter, it bears every evidence of the strong devotion that undoubtedly existed. Postmark Mamaroneck, N. Y., and dated February 6, 1921, the letter reads: 'Dear Father of Mine: 'Excuse the weird paper, but I am having some made and haven't gotten it as yet. I like your paper very much and am always glad when I hear from you. 'I have read your letters over ever and ever so many times until I almost know them by heart. I would have answered sooner, only I have had a siege of infected fingers. Three, one right after the other, and have only just gotten through with them. 'Of course, that made it rather difficult to write or draw, so I stayed home a couple of the days. I had one of the fingers cut four times, but the others only once. 'Mercy goodness, I wish you didn't have to work so long. You'll wear yourself down again, so be careful, won't you, Papa, pettie dear? Will the picture with Miss Compson be interesting? I do wish I might see you soon. I think of you so much it seems as if I saw you much more often than every once in a while. 'I realize how seldom we really see each other and I surely do hope you'll be East again soon, dear. I'd like very much to send you some real nice things for Christmas, but haven't the least idea what you would like, so kindly tell me, please, dear. 'I must stop now. Oh, Father, dear, I do love you so much. 'Ethel.'
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-04	The names of two film actresses were injected last night into the investigation of the William Desmond Taylor murder mystery. One is a star of national reputation. The other is a girl of humbler station in motion picture ranks. While detectives working on the case refused to confirm the above mentioned facts it was learned from other sources that investigation had disclosed a close association between Taylor and these two screen actresses. Of almost equal interest in the development of the investigation was the statement of Mrs. Earl Tiffany, wife of Taylor's chauffeur, that she saw Edward F. Sands, ex-secretary-valet of the murdered director, now sought as a witness, at Sixth and Figueroa Streets Tuesday afternoon last [the day prior to the murder] at 1:20 o'clock. Mr. and Mrs. Tiffany were subjected to a long examination last night, during which she revealed what the investigators [regard] as one of the most important clews yet to come before them. In regard to the screen actresses, the police refused to make any mention of their names or to discuss what part they are alleged to have played in the mystery. Until a late hour last night police detectives questioned Harry Fellows, Taylor's assistant director. They are said to regard Fellows as one of the vital witnesses in the case because of his close contact with Taylor for many months. The questioning last night, they said, was for the purpose of checking over Taylor's movements for three days preceding his murder. The search for Sands continued with unabated intensity. He is said to have returned to Los Angeles Tuesday and uttered this threat: 'I am here to get Bill Taylor.' His intimate knowledge of Taylor's double identity was revealed in startling fashion late yesterday when in Fresno it was learned that Sands had there pawned jewelry stolen from Taylor and that he had given the name 'William Deane-Tanner,' asserted to be Taylor's true name. The jewelry upon which a loan had been made and a ticket issued consisted of a pair of cuff links set with diamonds and onyx shirt studs, also set with diamonds. The man who secured the loan answered the description of Sands. In a bold hand he wrote on the ticket retained by the broker the name of his one-time employer, 'William Deane Tanner.' The meaning of this might have remained impenetrable, something as deep as the shadows as all else that concerns the silent figure whose tragic end left the motion picture world aghast and stunned. But by some means, possibly by reading his mail, it is believed, and learning the details of the allowances sent to his daughter, Sands became possessed of the secret. It may be said, parenthetically, that no member of the picture colony believes the change in name was for any purpose of concealment. Taylor (and that name will be used as most accurate) said not long ago to a friend, 'I have known great sadness in my life.' It is believed that the 'Tanner' was discarded along with the old life which he had described as being so unhappy. The police are assured beyond peradventure that the man who pawned the jewelry in Fresno, using the true name of the owner in a spirit of malicious triumph, was Edward Sands. There is something in this very circumstance which to the officers is itself a flood of light coming out of the darkness. The stealing and forgery indulged in by Sands did not convey the spirit of this piece of treachery; they might have been only for gain. But now that the Fresno episode is brought up from the obscurity of a dark little hole-in- the-wall pawn shop to be made plain in all its details, a new element appears. This new element is the pronounced unfriendliness of Sands, which takes on the aspect of a sinister and silent threat. The malice is further revealed in what seems to have been a persistent campaign of Sands to annoy the director. From Fresno he sent him a pawn ticket, a ticket issued on valuables stolen from Taylor on which money had been raised. Still another pawn ticket came through the mail from Sacramento. With this was the letter signed 'Alias Jimmy V.' These were derisive thrusts at Taylor; from some motive which has not been revealed the thief and forger was trying to torture the victim of his crimes. Chief of Police Frank Truex of Fresno, who found the pawned jewelry, learned that other articles stolen from Taylor and not recovered were pledged in Sacramento. It was disclosed yesterday that Mabel Normand recently made Taylor a present of a black amber cigarette holder valued at $1800. This is said to be one of the finest things of its kind ever made. In return Taylor gave Miss Normand a dresser set costing $1200. ...'We are satisfied that we have everything checked up to 8 o'clock on the night of the murder. 'The man who killed William D. Taylor is the one who was seen leaving his apartment shortly before that time Wednesday night. This is our absolute conclusion. 'We also have a definite clew as to who the man is and his motive. But to reveal either, would be to prevent clear and straightaway police work upon our hypothesis.' This was the statement last night of Captain of Detectives David L. Adams, after receiving reports from his staff of detectives who yesterday were combing through a multitude of rumors for something substantial. Sands, whose true name, The Examiner yesterday learned, is Edward Fitz Strathmore, wanted for desertion from the Army as well as for the robberies committed against Taylor, was seen in Los Angeles Tuesday. Hunted as a fugitive by both Federal and State officers, he nevertheless ran the gauntlet, appearing, it is said, without attempt at concealment either of his person or his plan. It is the latter which particularly interests the police. To a man who has given a detailed report of the conversation Sands is said to have threatened, with a curse, 'I'm here to get Bill Taylor.' Included among the persons who saw Sands on Tuesday are women whose testimony will probably be of the utmost importance if he is apprehended. One of these is said to have seen him Wednesday night near the scene of the crime. Her identity is being kept secret. There are so many fingers pointing at this man that the police have centered their efforts upon finding him. With the little light as to the relations between Taylor and Sands it is admittedly difficult to reconstruct the tragedy upon the basis merely of the discharged man's enmity growing out of Taylor's felony complaint against him. Hence, as a working theory, it is presumed that there may have been a much deeper motive underlying the act. That Taylor was not shot in the back, as at first reported, but in the left side, was yesterday discovered by Detectives Cato and Cahill, who minutely examined the wound. The single bullet entered at a point where the left elbow would rest if the arm were held naturally at the side. It might seem, therefore, that Taylor, hearing a noise in his room, turned from his writing desk where he was going over the stubs of his check book, and was shot on the moment he discovered the intruder. ...There is, however, a great mass of material upon which the police are checking, hoping that from the pile of chaff there may be found the single grain of information which, it is hoped, may germinate into the full disclosure of the dastardly act and all of its ramifications. Theodore Kosloff, the dancer, contributed one of these stories. Some two weeks ago he was with Taylor 'on location,' a place in the country. They were walking together. Suddenly from behind a clump of brush a man arose almost with a spring. Quicker than this surprising stranger, said Kosloff, was Taylor. He leaped around to one side and faced the man. They stood eye to eye for a moment, neither speaking. Then the man turned and walked away. Taylor, vouchsafing no explanation, continued the interrupted conversation. This unaccountable happening came to Mr. Kosloff's mind yesterday when he learned of his friend's violent end. But aside from relating the peculiar circumstances he could add nothing. ...Something of the description of this man was learned yesterday by The Examiner from A. A. Tomlinson, an accountant of 1022 West Fortieth Place. 'The true name of this man,' said Tomlinson, 'is not Sands but Strathmore. I recognized him by his picture in this morning's Examiner. 'He enlisted in the army during the war as Edward Fitz Strathmore and was assigned to Columbus Barracks, Ohio. I was then head of the finance office and upon learning that Strathmore had been a chief petty officer in the navy I asked that he be transferred to my department, which was done. 'On October 4, 1919, Strathmore forged my name to a Government check for $475 and tried to buy a motorcycle with it. He failed to carry out this scheme, but escaped. At the same time he forged the commanding officer's name to a discharge. He has been wanted for desertion. 'On July 4, 1920, I met him on Alvarado Street. He told me that he was expecting to get work with the street car company. I notified the police, but he disappeared. 'During his service with me at Columbus Barracks, Strathmore often boasted of the crimes he had committed. I did not believe him then, but thought it was a case of a young fellow drawing on his imagination. 'Once I asked him what he would do if he were in a dangerous situation. He said he would shoot his way out. 'Strathmore gave me a number of books, all bearing his signature on the inside of the cover. In each case the 'Strathmore' was written over a name which had been erased. In one of them I was able to make out that the erased name was 'Sands.' 'Among the volumes is one bearing, in Strathmore's handwriting, the entry, 'c-o Perry P. Le Berthon, 982 Fifty-second street, Brooklyn, N. Y.' The Examiner wired to Columbus barracks for a description of Strathmore and received the following: 'Dark complexion, ruddy face, height 5 feet 5 3/4 inches, slightly bow- legged.' Strathmore, or Sands, is a constant cigarette smoker. ...Recently, it was learned, Taylor had attended two or three 'hop' parties where all but he had either smoked opium or taken a drug in some form. He was there, it was assumed, to get 'atmosphere' for a picture. The possibility that the beginning of the tragedy had its setting at one of these proscribed affairs is being considered. ...The many friends of Taylor in the motion picture colony found it inconceivable, they said, that he should have been mixed up with a woman, particularly in such a way as to incur some one's mortal hostility.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-04	Neva Gerber, petite and beautiful film star, who at one time was engaged to marry William D. Taylor, but who broke off the match because she said both believed it unsuitable, said last night: 'I have never known a finer, better man than Mr. Taylor. He was the soul of honor, a man of exceptional culture, education and refinement, but possessing a reserve which very few were permitted to penetrate. 'So far as I know, he did not have an enemy in the world, although he had mentioned casually of fights he had on his various trips to the Klondike. 'He had led a most eventful life, and told me, on one occasion, of being in a village in the far north when it was scourged by smallpox. He went about nursing the inhabitants, including a priest. The epidemic was a severe one, and practically every one was stricken, or had fled to escape this pest. Finally he and the priest, I think it was, were the only two left. The priest had fallen a victim, but Mr. Taylor nursed him back to health. 'Then Mr. Taylor fell victim to the disease, and, after a hard battle, the priest nursed him back to health. 'In spite of this experience, he often said to me that he longed for the far north with its great open stretches, its mighty mountains, and the solitude of its hills and valleys. Often when he was nervous and tired from directing a picture he would tell me that he longed again to be going over the trail in search of gold, and far from the distractions of civilization. 'He told me that he made two fortunes, and spent both of them on his return from Alaska. 'Before the war he frequently received letters from his mother who was then in London, and his daughter, who I believe was then about 11 years old. His mother, I understood, was killed in an air raid on the British capital. 'He always spoke of his daughter as 'the child,' and was planning, about two years ago, to bring her to Los Angeles to live. It is my understanding that his former wife is now living in New York. 'I always assumed he was divorced, for had he not been, I do not believe he would have asked me to marry him. We were engaged for some time, but we finally came to the conclusion we were not suited to one another, so the prospective match was broken off about two years ago. This terrible affair is all the more mysterious because it was a common saying among the studios and in Hollywood generally that Mr. Taylor had not an enemy in the world. 'He may have made an enemy in the past who nursed a grudge through the years which finally resulted in this murder, but he never gave the slightest indication to me of having any foes.'
San Francisco	California	San Francisco Examiner	1922-02-04	Mabel Normand, one of the last persons to see William D. Taylor alive when she visited his Alvarado street home Wednesday evening to borrow a book on philosophy, denied emphatically today that she was or ever had been engaged to Taylor. 'We were pals of the golf course, fellow students in French and both enjoyed delving into philosophical subjects--that was my relation with Mr. Taylor. Just pals,' she said. Miss Normand was recovering this afternoon from a nervous collapse which she suffered when told of Taylor's murder. 'I wish to deny also the statement attributed to me that Mr. Taylor had told me of premonition of his death,' added Miss Normand. 'I never heard him mention any fear for his life or fear of any person or persons. 'Although we were good pals and had many interests in common, I was so slightly acquainted with his personal affairs that not until I read it in the papers did I know that Mr. Taylor had a daughter.'...
San Francisco	California	San Francisco Examiner	1922-02-04	Mary Miles Minter, motion picture star, who said she had always considered him the 'most perfect man' and who was one of the first to call at the Taylor residence after the murder became known, said: 'It is ridiculous for any one to intimate that Mr. Taylor and I were ever interested in each other in a sentimental way. 'I have known Mr. Taylor since I was a little girl. He has directed me in some of my best pictures and I have always loved and admired him almost as one would a father. 'Immediately after mother told me of his murder we hurried to his home. I have often been there with my mother or grandmother and when I came fact to face with Henry, his colored servant, I burst into tears yesterday. 'One newspaper said I had hysterics,' continued Miss Minter. 'Perhaps I did. Mr. Taylor was an old friend of the family and I have known him ever since I was a child playing child parts. 'I used so often to call Henry, his faithful servant, over the telephone and ask him if Mr. Taylor had remembered to eat his dinner, or to tell him to be sure that Mr. Taylor had plenty of covers on his bed, as it was a cold night. 'As far as I know, Mr. Taylor was never married. 'I do not believe that he was engaged to Mabel Normand. Miss Normand and myself are very good friends and I am sure I would have known had they been planning to marry. I think that Mr. Taylor found Miss Normand a lovable and rather boyish pal and that was all there was to it. 'For the last three and a half years I have known Mr. Taylor very well, although during the last five months or so I have scarcely seen him, having been so busy with my work. He directed me in 'Anne of Green Gables,' Judy of Rogues Hollow' [sic], 'Nurse Marjorie,' and 'Jenny be Good.' 'Mr. Taylor was always the man we all pointed to when any one asked us to name a representative man of the profession. 'No, I never heard him mention having any fear of any one, and I am positive he had no premonition of trouble. 'I have wept hours since his death and I expect to weep a great deal more. For Mr. Taylor was one of the most splendid and fine men that I ever expect to know.'
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-04	An excellent example of habitual observation was brought to light yesterday when Mrs. Ida Garrow, a modiste living at the Rose of Sharon apartments, told Examiner investigators that on Wednesday night as she was walking down Ocean View avenue, at the intersection of Alvarado street, she noticed a man acting in a very peculiar manner. 'It was about eight thirty, or possibly twenty minutes of nine, said Mrs. Garrow yesterday, 'Wednesday evening and I was hurrying to my club which meets at the corner of Grand View and Ocean View avenues. I was late for a class that is studying Hebrew which I did not want to miss, but as I have trained my observational faculties in the study of astrology it is without voluntary effort that I perceive whatever comes within the range of vision. 'As I came to Alvarado street, I saw a tall, slender, smooth shaven policeman, whose face I would instantly recognize if I were to see him again, walking toward Ocean View avenue. Walking with him was another man, to whom I did not pay any particular attention, because my curiosity was aroused by the peculiar actions of a man who was coming toward me a few feet in front of the policeman. Although the policeman was not paying the slightest attention to this man, the man was glancing back apprehensively over his shoulder, and at times looking in, away from the street, which would be directly in toward the court where the body of Mr. Taylor was found. 'As the policeman got closer to this man, the man crossed the street, and I noticed as he crossed that he was short and stout and wore a long overcoat, but there was the shadow of a building falling at such an angle that I could not determine whether he wore a cap or a hat.' Who was the policeman walking down Alvarado street at 8:30 or 8:45, and what did he see? This slight clue given by a careful observer may lead to very important developments in the mysterious murder, whose points are still baffling the keenest detectives of the city.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-04	Claire Windsor, beautiful motion-picture star, last night added a sensation to the mystery of the slaying of William D. Taylor, the popular picture director. She asserted that she had heard the dead motion picture director declare that 'he would kill Sands, the former valet, if he ever laid his hands on him.' 'Mr. Taylor, Tony Moreno and Betty Francisco were at the Ambassador Hotel at a party on Thursday night one week ago when Maurice, the famous dancer, first gave his exhibition,' said the film actress. 'Mr. Taylor was with me, and of course we talked about the robbery. 'He said: 'If I ever lay my hands on Sands I will kill him.' 'Mr. Taylor seemed very determined because Sands had robbed him of every cent he had at the time. Speaking of her friendship with Taylor, whom she referred to in terms of the greatest respect, Miss Windsor said that she had known him a long time but never very well. 'I always found him a perfect gentleman, always considerate of others and most polished,' she said. 'While I never worked under the direction of Mr. Taylor, I met him a number of times. Mr. Taylor made no secret of his plan to kill his valet, as he told a number of people that he would kill him if he ever got his hands on him.' Pretty Betty Francisco, the little blonde motion picture star, yesterday told of the party she attended at the Ambassador Hotel when Antonio Moreno was her escort and the late picture director was the companion of Claire Windsor. She referred to the slaying of Taylor with horror. 'I did not know him intimately enough to call him a friend, but I would be proud to call a man like him my friend. I was rather an acquaintance, and not fortunate enough to be a friend. 'It has been stated that I was with Mr. Taylor at the Ambassador Hotel. This, however, is not true. I was at the hotel with Mr. and Mrs. Bryant Washburn. Mr. Moreno and Miss Claire Windsor also were at the Ambassador, but I did not see Mr. Taylor. 'I never recall his speaking of any trouble he had with any one, but on one occasion he spoke of a servant of his who was taken ill with tuberculoses. He felt very badly about it. This must have been nearly two years ago. Last night at the home of Claire Windsor, 1042 Third avenue, the mother of the film actress told of the many books Taylor had recommended to her daughter to read.
New York	New York	New York Herald	1922-02-04	The women attracting most interest from investigators now are Mabel Normand, Mary Miles Minter, Claire Windsor and Mrs. Clara Crawford Ivers [sic]. He was a close friend to all of them. In addition he was known as a man who fascinated women. The police, therefore, are seeking not only the actual slayer, but the person behind the slayer, if two were involved.
New York	New York	New York Herald	1922-02-04	Despite her denial of a love affair with William D. Taylor, a close friend of both Mabel Normand and the slain man said yesterday that Miss Normand had been engaged to the director. While nothing definite had been settled it was generally understood, according to this source, that they were to marry. 'Of course, Miss Normand was much sought after by young men in Los Angeles,' said this informant. 'But I'm quite sure none of these affairs was serious. Miss Normand simply would have a pleasant evening with one of them at a dance or a party, and promptly forget all about it. If the young man called her by telephone afterward, as likely as not she'd wonder where she'd ever heard his name before. 'Some one of these young men might have resented her acquaintance with Taylor. It's hard to say. I never heard of anything that might lead one to think some woman was jealous of his friendship for her.' Another report brought forward in motion picture circles here was that the director and Miss Normand had feared trouble of some sort and that they had made plans secretly to have a wedding to head it off... The report that Taylor had been engaged to Mary Miles Minter was scouted by her friends here. For one thing, it was pointed out that her recent reported engagement to Thomas E. Dixon, son of a pencil manufacturer, seemed much more substantial than any of the romantic affairs in which Miss Minter has been mentioned, and that this engagement was denied emphatically by both the youthful star and her mother, Mrs. Shelby.
Boston	Massachusetts	Boston Herald	1922-02-04	[Charles] Maigne left the central police station after being in consultation for more than an hour with Captain of Detectives J. L. Moffatt. He declined to state what had been discussed, but declared he believed Sands, the butler, could give valuable information in the case. Maigne is a close friend of Mabel Normand, and was with her yesterday when she received newspaper men who sought her story of her call at Taylor's home Wednesday evening.
New York	New York	New York News/Philadelphia Inquirer	1922-02-04	Police are also seeking a man, said to be a New York broker, the friend of a movie actress, whose name they will not reveal. He came here from the East, they say, shortly after the actress came. ...The figure of Miss Claire Windsor, moving picture actress, was rudely thrust into the mystery yesterday. A week ago Wednesday night Mr. Taylor and a prominent moving picture star called at the home of Miss Windsor's mother, Mrs. G. E. Cronk, and asked to take Claire to a party at the Ambassador Hotel. Claire went. It is declared that Taylor some few days later took Miss Windsor to another party and that nothing was heard of her again until yesterday morning, some hours after Taylor was found cold and stiff in his luxurious apartment, a bullet hole in his body. Miss Windsor could not be found today. Her mother said she was 'out on location' with Marshall Neilan, a director. At the office of the director this was denied. Neilan, it was said, was on location, but not Miss Windsor. Just what connection there may be between the murder and Miss Windsor's unexplained disappearance, if there be any connection, could not be learned. Mrs. Cronk could give no explanation. 'My daughter knew Mr. Taylor,' said Mrs. Cronk tonight. 'But the first time she ever went out with him was a week ago Wednesday night. 'Mr. Taylor came with an actor whom I do not know. I thought nothing of it, for a long time ago Mr. Taylor was her director, and, besides, Claire goes out to dinner parties and dances nearly every night. The ways of the movies are queer and not for me to ask questions about. 'I had not seen Claire since Sunday--not until this morning--but I thought nothing of that either. You see, she has a little boy three years old and he disturbs her when she sleeps at home. So she had a couch put in at her studio and she sleeps there in peace and no baby crying to wake her up. 'When she didn't come back, I wasn't particularly worried. I thought she was at the studio. She got home this morning and said to me, 'Isn't it too bad. Mr. Taylor has been murdered. Such a nice man.' Then she left to go out somewhere on location.' There has been no effort on the part of the police as yet to get in touch with Miss Windsor; but every effort is being made to learn everything possible about Taylor, his life, his friends and his enemies. All Hollywood is being raked; all the queer meeting places of the movie actors and actresses, directors and assistant directors, cameramen and extras--restaurants, beauty parlors, dens where opium and marihuana and other strange drugs are common, dens where men and women dress in silk kimonos and sit in circles and drink odd drinks--are being visited. Everyone who has come into contact with the slain director, no matter how remotely, is being questioned. Things that may shock the world of moving picture fans, are destined to come out of the mystery, it is said. Peculiar stars, male and female, may be scorched and smirched before the police investigation is over. And all the sins of the cinema colony will be made known. Dope fiends will figure in the tale before it is all told and strange effeminate men and peculiarly masculine women. The police are working now on two theories. One is that a beautiful woman is in back of the affair, someone of the hundreds of beautiful women of the studio world. Perhaps she was a woman scorned, or the sweetheart of another man, perhaps--but there are many motives and the police have not yet decided on any. The other theory is that an enemy made in that mysterious part of the dead man's life, which he so well kept from his friends in Hollywood, was the murderer. It is almost certain that a man committed the murder. A man was seen before and after the shot was heard, according to Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean, who live in the same court of apartments, and the other witnesses. And the shot that ended Taylor's life came from a .38 weapon, a gun deemed too big for a woman to carry. The man is presumed to have entered the Taylor apartment while Taylor was escorting Mabel Normand to her automobile, bidding her goodby. The shot came a few minutes after Taylor re-entered the house. There was no attempt at robbery. Taylor's pockets had not been emptied. His jewels had not been touched. Not a drawer in the four rooms had been opened. If the intruder had meant to rob, he shot too quickly and became frightened and fled. Yet, according to the MacLeans, the man who came out of the front door of the Taylor apartment just after the shot--a tall man, roughly dressed, with cap pulled down on his head and a muffler around his neck--showed no signs of fright. He stood in the doorway and looked back, then departed--in such a way that no suspicion was aroused in the minds of those who saw him. A thief fleeing in terror after a murder would not act that way, the police assert. There are too many strange incidents connected with the affair also, the police say, to admit of the theory that a bungling burglar fired the shot. There have been many mysterious telephone calls, according to the negro man servant and cook, Harry [sic] Peavey. The phone would ring and no one would answer. Was it someone who merely wished to be satisfied that Taylor was at home?... The detectives are still searching for Edward F. Sands, Taylor's former secretary, who is said to have departed from the household some time ago while Taylor was abroad, taking with him numerous trinkets, also the Taylor motor and some forged checks. A peculiar thing in the minds of the police is that both Sands and Peavey are of a queer type, affected, given to feminine ways. Peavey was placed under arrest a few days ago and serious charges were made against him... Taylor, fifty years old, supposed to be a bachelor, lived in a cozy four- room apartment with his man servant, Harry [sic] Peavey, a queer chap, with a high, squeaky voice, a man arrested a few days ago charged with a serious offense. Peavey was proud of his cooking; he made the finest rice pudding to be had in Hollywood. And he liked to crochet doilies and scarfs and things. Taylor lived alone with his books and his pictures and with Peavey. Howard Fellows, a likable young chap, drove the big automobile. ...He loved jewelry, had lots of it. Perhaps the chain diamond ring, valued at $2,500 is best known to his friends. There was perhaps $20,000 worth of jewels in the apartment when Taylor was killed. His friends described him as witty, the girls say he loved to tease them. Recently, say his friends, he had been visiting the queer places in Los Angeles, where guests are served with marihuana and opium and morphine, where the drugs are wheeled in on tea carts, and strange things happen. 'It is not odd,' they say, 'he was looking for color.'
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Express	1922-02-04	While some of the most prominent members of the cinema colony in Los Angeles shuddered in horror as the grim details of the slaying of William D. Taylor, well-known film director, were told from the witness chair at the coroner's inquest today, what was characterized as the most important development since investigation of the slaying began was brought to light. That was the story of the bullet with which the motion-picture director was slain--a bullet that showed by its markings it had been manufactured years ago. As Detective Sergeant Herman Cline told of finding the peculiar shell and its probable significance in the ultimate unraveling of the mystery, listeners in the quiet hall outside the crowded inquest room could hear the subdued sobs of Mabel Normand, friend of the slain man, one of the last persons to see him alive, and herself one of the most noted figures in filmdom. Miss Normand was called as a witness and the inquest was delayed for some minutes until she arrived. Until the time for her appearance on the witness stand she was closeted in a small room adjoining the inquest chamber, where from time to time she gave way to her grief. ...Those who were summoned and who were ready to testify after the jury had been sworn in by the coroner were: Jesse L. Lasky, vice president of the Famous Players-Lasky organization, by whom Taylor was employed as director general. Charles Eyton, general manager of the West Coast Studios of that corporation. Miss Mabel Normand, noted film star, who so far as the police know was the last person to see Taylor alive. Douglas MacLean, another film star, whose home adjoins that of Taylor. Mrs. Douglas MacLean, wife of the star. Detective Sergeants Wallis, Ziegler, Herman Cline, Winn, Murphy, Cato and Cahill. Henry Peavey of 127 1/2 East Third street, negro servant of Taylor, who found the body of the slain man. Harry Fellows, chauffeur [sic] for Taylor. William Davis, chauffeur for Miss Normand. Verne Dumas, wealthy oil man, who was one of the first neighbors to enter the house. E. C. Jesserund [sic], owner of the apartment occupied by Mr. Taylor. ...Charles Eyton, general manager of the Lasky coast organization was called as the first witness. He was questioned by Coroner Nance: Q. Mr. Eyton, have you viewed the remains? A. Yes. Q. And you have identified the body? A. Yes, sir. It is William Desmond Taylor. Q. How old was Taylor at the time of his death and was he married? A. He was 45. Yes he had been married. Q. When did Mr. Taylor die? A. Thursday, or perhaps some time on Wednesday evening. I did not see the body until Thursday morning. Q. Please tell what you know of the situation. A. I was called Thursday morning by Harry Fellows, assistant to Mr. Taylor, who said that he had died suddenly as the result of a hemorrhage. I immediately went to the house where I found a deputy coroner and several other persons. The deputy declared death was due to an internal hemorrhage, and after reaching his hand under Taylor's vest, and finding a little blood, he stated that he believed it had run down from his mouth. I was not satisfied, however, that such was the case, and I called Harry Fellows. We then turned Mr. Taylor over onto his face, and pulling up his shirt, discovered the bullet wound. Q. Did you speak to any one about Mr. Taylor's residence as to whether or not a shot had been heard during the evening previous? A. Yes, I talked with Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean. Q. Did they fix any definite time that they believed they heard the shot. A. Mr. MacLean said it was about 8 or 8:15 o'clock. Mrs. MacLean thought it was a little later. Questioned by a juror Mr. Eyton answered as follows: Q. Was there any evidence of a struggle in the room? A. Not as far as I could see. Dr. A. S. Wagner, county autopsy surgeon was the next witness. Q. Did you perform an autopsy on William D. Taylor? A. Yes. Upon examination of the body of Mr. Taylor I found a bullet wound in the left side about 6 1/2 inches below the arm. The bullet passed through the left lung, and came out through the chest and over the right lung, lodging in the neck 4 1/2 inches to the left of the right shoulder. Q. What was the cause of Mr. Taylor's death? A. A gunshot wound in the chest caused his death. Mabel Normand, film star, was the next witness. She was not in the court when called, and was compelled to make her way through the crowd. The coroner told her to take a seat. She was plainly nervous, but not excited. Q. What is your name? A. Mabel Normand. Q. What is your occupation? A. Motion pictures. Q. Were you acquainted with William D. Taylor, the deceased? A. Yes. Q. Were you a visitor at his home last Wednesday evening? A. Yes. I arrived at his home at 7 p.m. Q. Did you leave Mr. Taylor alone in his room? A. No, he came with me out to the car. He stood and talked with me and told me he would call me at my home later in the evening. When I drove away I waved my hand at him and then he went back to his apartment. Q. Do you know when Henry Peavey, Mr. Taylor's valet, left the apartments? A. I don't know just exactly the time, but he left before I did. Q. Then Mr. Taylor told you that he would call you later, and did he ever call you? A. No; he never called me. When I told him 'good-by' at the car it was the last time I ever saw him alive. Henry Peavey, Taylor's valet was called to the stand. He told Coroner Nance that his occupation is that of cook and valet, and that he had been employed by Taylor for a period of six months. He said he was in the Taylor apartments on the evening of the tragedy. Q. When did you leave Mr. Taylor's home that evening? A. About 7:15 p.m. Q. Was there anyone else in the house besides yourself at the time you left? A. Miss Normand. That was all. Miss Normand came to the house to talk with Mr. Taylor about a book. It was a red-backed book, and they were discussing it when I left. They were both seated in the living-room not far from the front door. I had locked the back door and was leaving by the front door, and that's how I know where they were sitting. I always went out the front door when I went home in the evening. Q. When did you see Mr. Taylor again? A. The next morning about 7:30 o'clock. Q. What was Mr. Taylor doing when you next saw him? A. He was lying on the floor in the living-room flat on his back, a dead man. When I entered the door I first saw his feet. I didn't know what to think of his position on the floor and I spoke to him. I spoke to him two or three times, and then suddenly I saw blood on his face and on the floor, and then turned and ran out of the house, yelling at the top of my voice. Mr. Coroner, I was pretty badly scared, and I did not know what I was saying. Following a series of questions Peavey testified that Mr. Taylor was wearing the same clothing he had worn the evening before. He said that none of Mr. Taylor's jewelry had been disturbed. He also said the lights were burning just as they were the previous evening. The next witness was T. H. Ziegler. He stated he was a police officer and he had been called to the Taylor home that morning to investigate the shooting. Mr. Ziegler said: 'I found Mr. Taylor just inside the door of his apartments lying on his back, rigid and dead. Much blood had been flowing from his mouth, and it covered the back of his head and a portion of the floor near by. Q. Did you discover any evidence of violence? A. None whatever. Q. Did you find any weapons in the room? A. Not in that room. I went upstairs and found a 32-caliber automatic revolver in another room. It had five loaded shells in it, and had not been fired for days, perhaps weeks.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Record	1922-02-04	Less than three hours before he was slain William Desmond Taylor, motion picture director, was mulling through volumes of poetry on the shelves of C. C. Parker's book store, 520 West Sixth street. Veiling an aesthete's enthusiasm behind a kindly reserve Taylor glanced casually through his beloved books and finally turned to Miss Mae Irons, saleslady. 'He purchased 'The Home Book of Verse' in two volumes,' Miss Irons said today. 'The work is a modern anthology of English verse. He paid $25 for it.' It was only a few minutes before 5 o'clock when Taylor left the Parker store. 'He seemed in normal spirits,' Miss Irons said. 'He was a very courteous gentleman. I did not know who he was until Mr. Parker told me afterward.' According to Miss Irons, Taylor said he was buying the anthology so that he might give one of the volumes to a friend. He had previously given the books to this friend, he explained, and one of them had been lost. Taylor introduced himself to Parker before leaving the store. 'I know you well by reputation,' Parker said to him jovially, 'but those of us who know, don't count much on reputation.' Taylor's answer was an amused smile. It is believed the motion picture director went almost immediately home from the book store...
Omaha	Nebraska	Omaha Bee	1922-02-04	The latest 'release' from Los Angeles cinema colony is that of a thriller that promises to run through more than one reel. It is the tale of a murder, sordid, perhaps, in its intimate details, yet possessed of the one attribute dear to the producer's heart, that of mystery. How or in what manner it will end is just now beside the case. That wonderful community of abnormal personalities will continue to hold a fair place on the front page for some time yet because of this unpretty contribution to the record its habitues have made. Will H. Hays will find in it at least one of the minor problems he will have to deal with, although it is conceivable that the regulation of the private lives of the actors who disport before the camera is not included in the business management of the great industry. Unfortunate though it be, the assembling in more or less forced intimacy of considerable numbers of persons of both sexes whose code of personal behavior is not the rigid sort that pervades the general walk of life, is likely to produce results that shock the world by their nature. Nothing shown on the screen has so far exceeded in weirdness the things actually done by the movie players. Men and women in other walks of life have suffered by similar tragedies, but it is the movie stars' misfortune in such cases that millions of people had interest in them. Their every act almost, even those of personal conduct, are on a public stage.
New York	New York	New York Times	1922-02-04	POLICE SEEK BUTLER IN TAYLOR MURDER Authorities Are informed He Threatened to Kill Film Director After Theft Charges. WAS SEEN IN LOS ANGELES Dead Man 's Daughter is Sought Here-War Veterans Plan a Military Funeral. Special to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Cal., Feb. 3. The first direct evidence connecting a suspect with the murder of William Desmond Taylor, moving picture director, was unearthed today, when the police were informed by one person that Edward. P. Sands, formerly employed by the dead man as a butler and accused by him of theft, had on the day before the murder threatened to kill Taylor. Two other persons informed the police that they had seen Sands in Los Angeles on the day before the murder. The police tonight were conducting a wide search for Sands, and they believe that his arrest would go a long way toward solving the mystery of Taylor 's death. The names of two young film actresses and another man who had not previously figured in the case also were linked with the investigation by the police, Subpoenas for more than half a score of film actors and actresses and men prominent in the motion picture industry were serveds by police detectives today for the inquest at 10:30 tomorrow morning over the body of Taylor. Among those who will testify will be Mary Miles Minter, Douglas MacLean, Mabel Normand, Edna Purviance, Charles Eyton, Mrs. Douglas MacLean and Mrs. Julius Crawford Ivers, Howard Fellows, a chauffeur employed by Taylor, and Henry Peavey, a negro servant in the Taylor home, were questioned by the police today. As a result of the inquiry the police say they definitely fixed the time of the murder at about 8 o'clock Wednesday evening. According to Fellows, he appeared at the Taylor home at 7:45 o'clock and rapped at the front door to summon his employer. The lights were burning, he said, but there was no response to his summons. Fifteen minutes later, he said, he tried to get Taylor by telephone, but without success. Peavey's story was the same as that he told after the body of Taylor was found. Home Is Searched. The police made a thorough search of Mr. Taylor's home today and took charge of letters, papers and documents that might serve to throw some light on the slain man 's affairs. They drew plans of each room and the territory about the residence, The arrangement of the furniture in the room where Taylor was shot was not disturbed, as the police declared that a careful scrutiny would be made for possible finger prints. Mr. Taylor's apartments were tastefully furnished. There were books in profusion, mostly of a philosophical and soclalistic nature," Taylor's funeral will not be held until next week. This was the decision reached today by his closest friends. A committee was appointed by the Directors' Association to plan for the funeral services, in which many motion picture stars will participate. Frank Lloyd, director for Norma Talmadge and one of Mr. Taylor 's closest Friends, stated that final arrangements would not be announced until investigators in New York had located the slain man's daughter, Ethel Daisy Taylor, who is said to be a pupil in a private school on Long Island. The Overseas Club, comprised of veterans of the British armies, is arranging to participate in the funeral services. Mr. Taylor was a soldier in the Canadian Army during the war and was retired as a Captain. Dr. H. M. S. Maddock of the Overseas Club declared that an escort of Canadian Army officers, a firing squad of Canadian ex-service men and a Scottish band to play the funeral dirge on the bagpipes will be furnished by the club. Lloyd stated that he would probably get a British military burial. A petition for probate of the estate of Mr. Taylor was filed today by Public Administrator Bryson. The petition stated that the estate is valued at approximately $60,000, but as various papers have not yet been found the exact  value is unknown. Listed in the petition are $6,000 in the bank, $4,500 in Government bonds, $5,000 in automobiles, jewels valued at $1,500 and incidentals about the house of an approximate value of $1,500. The heirs are unknown, the petition stated. A committee of investigation was organized today by the directing heads of the combined motion picture corporations to assist in solving the mystery surrounding the murder. The committee was formed following a meeting of the Motion Picture Directors' Association, of which Mr. Taylor was the head. Major Maurice Campbell, a member of the Famous Players-Lasky staff of directors, and a personal friend of the slain man, was named Chairman of the committee. The investigators, who have conferred with Captain of Detectives David Adams, are mostly former army officers who were personally acquainted with Mr. Taylor. Today the investigators were engaged in reviewing Mr. Taylor's career to determine if he had any personal enemies. They have also begun a canvass of all the studios to find any persons who may be of some assistance in their investigation. While the revenge and jealousy theories appear to be the most plausible, the police are not overlooking the possibility of blackmail. It is considered possible that the slayer attempted to extort money from Mr. Taylor and when refused and threatened with arrest he shot to kill. An open check book on Mr. Taylor's writing desk and a pen with fresh ink on it, might be deduced as part of a ruse by Mr. Taylor to "stall the murderer off" until he could advise the authorities. The theory that a woman is involved in the slaying is being seriously entertained by police. Although the slain man led a studious life, it is known that he had a wide circle of acquaintances and that many of them were frequent visitors to his home. It is said that Taylor's first wife lives in Mamaroneck, L.I., with her daughter, Ethel Daisy Taylor. It is thought that she still used the name Taylor, though this is not certain.
New York	New York	New York Times	1922-02-04	LAYS TAYLOR'S DEATH TO UNKNOWN SLAYER. INQUEST IN LOS ANGELES ENDS. Inquest in Los Angeles Ends Abruptly Without Hearing All the Film Stars Summoned. Special to the New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Cal., Feb. 4 - Ending with dramatic suddenness after a few witnesses had been examined, and with detectives rushing from the scene in an automobile on a mysterious clew, the inquest over the body of William Desmond Taylor, film director, who was murdered in his home on Wednesday night, today added new sensations to the murder case. The developments at the proceedings were: Henry Peavey, Taylor's negro servant, collapsed when taken into the Morgue to view the body just before the inquest started. He was revived, called to the witness stand, and there became hysterical, laughing loudly when asked what he did upon finding the dead body of his employer. Coroner Vance suddenly halted the inquest after calling but one of the motion picture actresses summoned, Mabel Normand, and several of the jury then retired and returned a verdict that Taylor was killed "by a gunshot wound inflicted by a person or persons unknown to this jury, with intent to kill or murder." Captain of Detectives David Adams reached the scene just as the last witness was excused. He summoned Detective Sergeant Herman Cline and other police officers present and they droe away in an automobile, going west on Tenth Street. A vast crowd of curious persons was attracted by the inquest, the first formal hearing in the case: many who were unable to gain entrance stood in the street to get a glimpse of actors, actresses, and others who actively participated in the proceedings. There was a hush of expectation when Coroner Nance called Miss Mabel Normand as a witness. She appeared calm as she walked to the witness chair and formally gave her name. "I saw Mr. Taylor at his home on Wednesday evening," Miss Normand stated. "I called at 7 o'clock that evening and left at about 7:45 o'clock. Mr. Taylor escorted me to my automobile at the curb and we chatted a moment. After the car started away and as it was turning around I turned and waved my hand to him. He was standing on the sidewalk." Miss Normand was asked who was present at the Taylor house during the Taylor house on Thursday. was the final visit. She replied that the only other person there besides herself and the slain man was Henry Peavey, the colored servant. "He left the house fifteen or twenty minutes before I did," Miss Normand said. The witness said that Mr. Taylor had promised to telephone her at home later that evening. She added that she went home and retired and did not again hear from Mr. Taylor. Charles Eyton, general manager of the Lasky studios, where Taylor had been emplyed as chief director, was the first witness. He testified that Taylor was 45 years old and had once been married. The Coroner questioned the witness briefly concerning the career of the slain man. The second witness was Dr. A. F. Wagner county autopsy surgeon. He testified that the bullet entered Taylor's body at the left side, penetrating between the lobes of the left lung and lodging in the neck. Tom Ziegier, Detective Sergeant, who was the first official to reach the Tayylor, witness. He explained how he made the preliminary investigation, explaining that when he first arrived it was believed Taylor had died of a hemorrhage. The only weapon found in the house was Taylor 's revolver, Ziegler said. It was in a dresser drawer in the bedroom and was a  .32-calibre automatic gun. As Ziegler stepped from the stand Coroner Nance remarked "That is all," and the inquest abruptly ended. Many of the spectators, anticipating the questioning of others prominent in motion picture circles, appeared to be dazed by the abrupt termination of the proceedings. 