Pittsburgh	Pennsylvania	Pittsburgh Post	1922-02-08	Only by the exercise of supreme self-restraint has Congress refrained so far from appointing a commission to go on a California excursion to investigate picture studio shenanigan.
San Francisco	California	San Fransico Chronicle	1922-02-08	The angle eliminated today was the theory that the New York broker who came here, ostensibly to marry Miss Mary Miles Minter, might have slain the director out of jealousy. It was well known that Taylor idolized the girl. It was learned today, however, that the young man did not flee the city the day after the murder from any apprehension. The management of the hotel at which he was guest, had requested him to leave. The broker brought a film actor and two extra girls into his room. It is declared that the quartet was noisy and that people in nearby rooms summoned the hotel detective. The latter declares there was much drink in the place. He says further that when he asked the women to leave the men assaulted him.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-08	(letter written to Taylor by Mary Miles Minter) 'You Wonderful Man! I Want to Go Away With You--Alone,' Is Opening Here is another unsigned love letter, in cipher, found in the effects of William D. Taylor, the motion picture director. This letter would indicate the writer's deep love for Taylor. The code is known to thousands of youngsters: What shall I call you, you wonderful man. You are standing on the lot, the idol of an adoring company. You have just come over and put your coat on my chair. I want to go away with you, up in the hills or anywhere just so we'd be alone--all alone. In a beautiful little woodland lodge you'd be cook (as I can only make tea) and fetch the water and build the fire. Wouldn't it be glorious to sit in a big comfy couch by a cozy warm fire with the wind whistling outside trying to harmonize with the faint sweet strains of music coming from our victrola. And then you'd have to get up and take off the record. Of course, I don't mean that, dear. Did you really suppose I intended you to take care of me like a baby? Oh no, for this is my part. I'd sweep and dust (they make the sweetest, little dust caps, you know) and tie fresh ribbons on the snowy white curtains and feed the birds and fix the flowers, and, oh, yes, set the table and help you wash the dishes and then in my spare time I'd darn your socks. I'd go to my room and put on something soft and flowing, then I'd lie on the couch and wait for you. I might fall asleep for a fire always makes me drowsy--then I'd wake to find two strong arms around me and two dear lips pressed on mine in a long sweet kiss - (THE LAST PARAGRAPH OF THIS LETTER IS BEING WITHHELD BY THE EXAMINER FROM PUBLICATION AT THIS TIME)
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Recrod	1922-02-08	A complaint charging Sands with the murder was to be issued today by the district attorney's office. William Doran, chief deputy district attorney, said there was no doubt in his mind that Sands is the guilty man.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Herald	1922-02-08	(Los Angeles)--Captain of Detectives David Adams made the flat statement today that secret information in his possession positively links Sands with the slaying and the police were concentrating their efforts upon a search for the former secretary. 'We have obtained secret information that we believe virtually solves the murder,' Captain Adams stated. 'We are centering our efforts on the location of Sands. This information has not been made public, nor will it be, but it is positive in its character.'
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Times	1922-02-08	William D. Taylor, slain film director, was the dude of Dawson City, according to Adelbert Bartlett of Santa Monica, who knew him in Alaska [sic] in 1910. He wore tweeds, a soft crush hat, tasteful haberdashery, and was immensely popular with the women. He played crack tennis, was a card expert and attended most of the big functions in a dress suit, one of the few dress suits in the town. At that time Mr. Taylor was timekeeper for the Yukon Gold Company at $175 a month. 'Mr. Taylor gave me the impression of a man on a mysterious mission. At times he would obscure himself and nobody would know where he was and then again, he would embark on the heights of sociability. All of the women were interested in him. The country was more or less unconventional and he was frequently the escort of married women. In a perfectly proper way, of course. 'There was one case in particular, however, that impressed me at the time as liable to lead to trouble. Every morning at 10 o'clock he would have a tete-a-tete over the telephone with a woman. One woman was the wife of a high employee of the company, and there was some gossip. 'I used to wonder why a man of his personality and culture should spend his time there at such meager pay and the fact that he was always somewhat mysterious enhanced this question. 'He was thoroughly familiar with the Yukon Territory and I understood that he had been there in 1898 and 1899. He used to show me many places of interest. Robert W. Service, the poet, Mr. Taylor and myself have played together. 'Mr. Taylor was rather a quiet fellow, but always an outstanding figure. He attended the society affairs given by the Governor of the Territory and by the local celebrities and made himself generally agreeable, too. 'Lots of us guessed that he was a typical English remittance man. If Mr. Taylor was murdered because of any of his actions up there in the Klondike the grudge must have been harbored for a long time.'
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Times	1922-02-08	Dawson City, Feb. 7.--Records of the Yukon Gold Company indicate that William Desmond Taylor, motion-picture director who was found dead with a bullet wound in his neck [sic] in Los Angeles recently, added to his multifarious lists of trades during his sojourn in the Yukon. In Dawson he worked as timekeeper and commissary clerk from 1908 to 1913 [sic]. He is remembered as an efficient commissary clerk in several creek stations of the Yukon Gold Company. At Claim Seventy-six 'below' on Bonanza creek, he is referred to as a record-breaker in holding down grub allowances. He rode horseback for pastime and wrote short stories, which were published, it was said, in outside magazines. It is believed that he originally came from England. In the four- year period mentioned, he was absent from the Yukon one winter when he went to Honolulu with a theatrical company.
San Francisco	California	San Fransico Chronicle	1922-02-08	Los Angeles, Feb. 7--...Meantime the Sheriff's office has announced than an arrest will be made before morning and that the person arrested will not be Sands. The 'woman' theory was strengthened by Mabel Normand. She denied that she was infatuated with Taylor or Taylor with her, but admitted it might have appeared so to a jealous person and that 'it might be another girl.' Despite her disavowal of love for Taylor, Miss Normand collapsed at his funeral, held in the procathedral here today. An actress who had been severely grilled a few nights ago was questioned again today. It is believed her sweetheart may know something of the murder. He was jealous of Taylor, it is said. The 'tip' that Sands was hiding near Carlin, Nev., was proved false. The man was not Sands. He was much shorter, and he had a wooden leg. It was reported that new evidence as to the activities of the narcotic vendors, who are plentiful in Hollywood, had promised surprising developments, but there was nothing definite. The police were looking for a man said to be known as 'Dirty Joe,' who they believe can tell something about Taylor's personal habits, about the woman who went to call at his cozy bachelor apartments, when the shades had been drawn, and about the men reputed to be jealous of him. Some of the actors and actresses who have been patronizing this peddler are being sought, the police believing it possible they may talk 'if rightly handled.' Mary Miles Minter, the film star, who became hysterical when she heard of Taylor's death, has shut herself up in her home and four private detectives stand on guard to keep everybody away. Since it became known that Mary had written to Taylor, she will see nobody. A letter with her butterfly crest, signed, 'Yours, always, Mary,' was found in one of the numerous books in the Taylor library. 'Dearest,' it said, 'I love you, I love you, I love you.' There were nine little crosses for nine little kisses and the big cross with an exclamation point at the bottom of the letter. Mary has not admitted she sent this letter. Neither has she denied it. She has denied, however, that she loved Taylor in the sense the word is usually used. She loved him as a big, strong, kind man, she says, a brilliant, courteous, charming 'uncle.' She never was engaged to him. He never made love to her. Henry Peavey, Taylor's negro valet and cook, was questioned again today, but the only new thing he told was that Taylor kept a tiny lace handkerchief and that he used to kiss it often reverently. It may have been one sent him by his daughter, Ethel Daisy, who is coming to Los Angeles to attend the burial. It may have belonged to any one of many beautiful women. The handkerchief, so far as the police can learn, has nothing to do with the murder. But then, they say, neither has the missing pink silk nightie, for which they are still searching. The mystery of the nightie's disappearance simply adds to the mystery of the case. It was reported that the new county grand jury may be given this case within a few days. 'We are progressing with the case,' said Captain Adams, 'even if only by the process of elimination. We have not yet made any arrests, or taken anyone on suspicion, but we are gradually getting out of all the false trails that have been hiding the real path. I believe it all rests with Sands. Once we have him, we'll have everything.'...
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-08	Declaring that he called William D. Taylor at 7:55 o'clock Wednesday night and, receiving no answer, went to the apartment of the film director, arriving there at 8:15 o'clock, rang the doorbell and still met with no response, Howard Fellows, chauffeur for the murdered director, last night definitely fixed the time within which the crime must have been committed and added facts regarding as of first magnitude importance in their bearing upon the crime. Strangely enough, this young man, who had been Taylor's driver for nearly six months, had not been questioned at length until yesterday, when an Examiner representative called on him at his home, 1622 Shatto Place. He is a brother of Harry Fellows, who was Taylor's assistant director. Yesterday Detective Sergeant Tom Zeigler took Howard to the Taylor home, 404-B South Alvarado street. He was partially identified by a resident of the neighborhood as the person he had seen seated in a car on the night of the murder near the scene of the crime and about the time it was committed. Fellows denied this and convinced Zeigler that the man was mistaken. One of Fellows' most interesting statements, other than that relating to his movements and observations on the night of the assassination, had to do with an alleged quarrel between Taylor and Mabel Normand. 'I was driving Mr. Taylor and Miss Normand from the Ambassador Hotel, where they had attended a New Year's Eve party, to her home.' said Fellows. 'On the way they had a quarrel. I don't know what it was about, but both were very much excited. 'Mr. Taylor took Miss Normand home and then returned to his apartment. Upon arriving there he broke down and wept. 'On the following morning he did up some jewelry in a package and took it to Miss Normand at her home.' Henry Peavey, Taylor's colored valet, confirms this. 'Mr. Taylor and Miss Normand were very affectionate,' continued Fellows. Questioned independently, Peavey said that Taylor often caressed her. As to these matters Fellows spoke casually, but when he entered upon the events of the night of February 1, his narrative became astounding both as to its content and because he had never told it before. 'I left the house (Mr. Taylor's) about 4:30 Wednesday afternoon,' Fellows began. 'Mr. Taylor told me he might be going out in the evening and instructed to be sure to telephone by 7:30. I went to the home of a young lady friend and was there until 7:55. I recall the time accurately because I had it on my mind to call Mr. Taylor and ask him if he would need the car. 'I called him two or three times before that hour, bur received no reply. I left the house of my girl friend at five minutes to eight and drove directly to Mr. Taylor's. 'I reached there about a quarter past eight. 'There was a light in the living room. I was surprised that Mr. Taylor should be home and not have answered the telephone. 'I rang the doorbell. Silence. I rang again. Still no response. I must have rung three or four times. Then I concluded: 'Well, he has some one there and doesn't want to answer.' 'So I put up the car. I was around back of the house, and it is peculiar that persons in the neighborhood should have heard me walking and not have heard me put up the car. I made a good deal of noise doing this, as the garage is difficult to get into, and I guess I must have backed the car up four or five times. 'I am satisfied that I am the man Mrs. Douglas MacLean saw standing on the porch and leaving the house. I wore a cap and a raincoat. 'I noticed no cars in the immediate vicinity and saw no one who aroused my suspicions. 'Naturally, I am convinced that both when I phoned and when I rang the doorbell, Mr. Taylor was lying there on the floor murdered.' Taking the testimony of Fellows and Miss Normand together, it is now possible to fix the time of the murder within fifteen minutes. Miss Normand said she left Taylor between 7:30 and 7:45 o'clock. Fellows called him at 7:55. The murder was committed between Miss Normand's leave-taking and Fellows' phoning. Hence, for the first time, the police have a picture of the murder as it relates to the time when and in which it was committed. Before Fellows' statement became available there was no conclusive evidence as to the time the bullet of the assassin struck the film director down. Testimony as to the shot being heard was so vague as to be unconvincing. It could not be said with finality that the murder did not occur at midnight or at any other hour of the night. The acts of the drama leading to the murder must have been brief. It would appear, indeed, that there were no preliminaries, that the intruder, concealed in the room, stepped out and fired the shot. It is therefore deduced that it was a premeditated crime and not one precipitated by a quarrel or any sort of scene more than of momentary duration. One group of police investigators and most of the deputy sheriffs working on the case are now convinced that the visit of Mabel Normand was the immediate antecedent occasion for the crime. This theory naturally takes for granted that Miss Normand had not the slightest intimation that her dear friend was to be shot to death, but officers cannot help but believe that the murderer found the way for his crime paved in some way by the visit of Miss Normand. There was another new angle to the case late yesterday upon which two of the ablest detectives on the force are now working. A citizen of established reputation gave the details to a high police official yesterday, the story running substantially as follows: A young man who has come into touch with motion picture people in a business way, though not one of them, was infatuated with an actress prominently mentioned in the investigation. Shortly before the time of the murder, that is between 7:30 and 8 o'clock on the night of February 1, this citizen saw the young man in question near Taylor's house. He wore a cap and a long coat. Since last Thursday he has not been seen either at his home or place of business. This clue is regarded as important because the elements of motive and time are supplied. The young man is said to have a violent temper and to have strongly resented innuendoes affecting the reputation of the actress whom he worshipped. Into the William D. Taylor murder last night was injected an element which the police regard as of startling import. This was the revelation, according to information, that a man's handkerchief, not the possession of Taylor himself, was found in the director's living room the morning after he was slain. The conclusion that the handkerchief did not belong to Taylor is furnished in this report-- It bore the initial 'S.' A detective is said to have picked up the article from the floor. He glanced at it, saw the initial, and for the moment, other matters engrossing him, he gave the discovery little thought. For several hours all was confusion in the Taylor rooms. Detectives, motion picture actors, reporters and photographers invaded the apartment. Yesterday the detective recalled the incident, remembering distinctly that there was a single initial embroidered on the square of linen. The disclosure proved to be of profound interest, as officers immediately started upon an investigation with this as the subject matter and the owner the end of the search. What gives the discovery special significance is that the handkerchief was soiled. So says the detective, who recalls this circumstance clearly. The handkerchief was lying on the floor near where Taylor's body lay outstretched. Now, Taylor, according to all the descriptions of him furnished by his friends, was a neat man and would not have had a soiled article like this lying around. To add to the probability that it came from without rather than from within the home, may be mentioned the fact that Henry Peavey, colored valet, had straightened up the director's living room before leaving for the evening. Peavey yesterday informed the police that the handkerchief certainly was not there when he left. He also stated that Taylor possessed nothing resembling this. Hence, it is a deduction that a man having a handkerchief bearing the initial 'S' called on Taylor and was in the apartment between the time Peavey left for the night and the discovery of the crime the following morning. In reconstructing the murder as suggested by this discovery the police picture the assassin as taking his handkerchief from his pocket during a conversation with Taylor and of so insecurely placing it back that it fell from his pocket. Or--and this is another sketch to fit the hypothesis--he may have used the handkerchief after the murder and, either in haste or agitation, dropped it. It is now of the utmost importance, in the view of the police, that this handkerchief be recovered. Or, failing in this, that its owner be identified. Some one took the article from the living room where it was carelessly placed by the detective who found it. Did that some one have an interest in hiding what might have been incriminating evidence? Its appearance, they say, would have precluded any mere souvenir hunter from having taken it. However, it is believed to be beyond question that some one surreptitiously picked this thing up and concealed it in his pocket. Whether or not it is of the huge possible importance with which it is now regarded, this new story has sent the police hunting in a new direction. They are looking for the owner of that handkerchief. A long list of film folk, celebrated and obscure, whose names begin with that initial, was being canvassed last night by officers. Little importance was attached to the pink silk nightgown found in the director's apartments. This, it was learned, had been laundered only once or twice and bore no initials or other marks by which its ownership might be determined. Information came to headquarters yesterday that a man had been seen walking back and forth in the rear of Taylor's home in the Westlake district about two weeks ago. He was seen there on at least two nights, pacing up and down the alley and, apparently, watching the house. There is, of course, no means of knowing who he was or why he was there, but the theory of a hired assassin enters to account for his presence and stealthy vigil. Detective Sergeants Cato and Cahill yesterday started a systematic requestioning of all persons who might contribute helpful facts. One of those put down for a thorough course of grilling is an actress who has not been mentioned in the case. Officers called at her studio yesterday, but found that she was out on location at a distant point in Southern California. The collapse of a noted screen star mentioned frequently in connection with the case yesterday prevented the police from further questioning her. They had a point to clear up, and the information, it was learned, could only come from her. Her attorney yesterday took command of her affairs and notified callers that she was bedridden and in neither physical nor mental condition to discuss the case. The cause of the actress' breakdown is attributed in part to the strain of innumerable police interviews, but chiefly to the loss of a friend who, she says, was very dear to her. It developed yesterday that few members of the picture colony believe Edward F. Sands, discharged secretary-valet of the director, to have been the murderer. Particularly in the Famous Players-Lasky is this conviction strong. Few of them knew Sands personally, but those who had seen him around Taylor's apartments now recollect him as a man who might have been guilty of petty crimes, such as robbery, but not of murder. It occasioned little surprise yesterday when the sheriff of Elko, Nev., wired that the man seen there for several days and supposed to be Sands had been questioned and gave such a clear account of himself that the sheriff ordered his release. Detective Ed King this morning will ask the District Attorney for a complaint charging Sands with the murder of Taylor.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Times	1922-02-08	Personal letters written by Mabel Normand, film actress to William Desmond Taylor, slain motion-picture director, were returned to her late yesterday, according to information in the possession of three officers working on the murder investigation. These missing letters, which have figured largely among the puzzling phases of the case, have never been in the hands of the police, it was declared. On suggestions of a thorough grand jury inquiry into the matter, the person said to have had these letters returned them to her, the three officers said. But a representative of Miss Normand, who collapsed yesterday at the funeral of the man whose home she left only a few minutes before he was shot in the back, stated she had not received them at a late hour last night. Captain of Detectives Adams asserted again that the police have never had any letters written by her or by Mary Miles Minter, another actress, whose love for Mr. Taylor has never been denied by her. These letters, couched in terms of endearment for the director, also were returned, according to the officers' report. Miss Minter, who has been ill, had no statement to make concerning the report. Her attorney said she did not have them... Deputy Sheriff Bell, working in connection with a 'lead' from Sheriff Traeger, made a mysterious trip during the afternoon and upon his return went into conference with Undersheriff Biscailuz and Superintendent of Criminal Investigation Manning. Mr. Biscailuz declined to divulge the nature of the inquiry, but declared he has every reason to believe they are on the right track and that the murder will not slip into the unsolved class. Detective Sergeants Cato and Cahill spent the morning and part of the afternoon eliminating from serious consideration a 'tip' given Monday night by C. M. Meister, chauffeur for the Yellow Taxicab Company, who told the officers a lurid story of four persons and their mysterious activities near the scene of the murder on South Alvarado street last Wednesday night, the time the shooting occurred. Cato and Cahill declared yesterday they are convinced the episode mentioned has no bearing on the case, but they investigated it thoroughly before discarding it... Information tending to connect a motion-picture director, thus far not mentioned in any way with the official inquiry, with the mysterious slaying of Mr. Taylor in his bachelor apartments was received by two of the detectives late in the day. They left on a hurried trip which kept them away from the police station many hours. Although they were reticent about the new 'lead' it was learned they had discovered witnesses who related a quarrel asserted to have occurred, between Mr. Taylor and the new suspect. An Edward Sands, at first believed to be the man about whom the country- wide search has centered, was questioned for a considerable time yesterday by Detective Sergeants Herman Cline and Murphy. Mr. Sands, a young man whose description answered in a general way to that of the suspect, recently became captain of bellboys in a fashionable hotel. A letter addressed to him was noted, and since he had been employed at the hotel only a few days, someone's suspicions were aroused. Following the clue given them, the officers investigated. Mr. Sands gave a straightforward account of his whereabouts for the last few years and declared he did not know any Edward F. Sands. He explained that his middle name was Edward but that he always used it as a first name. In the hope that Mr. Sands might have known something of the family of the man wanted, the officers questioned him for an hour at the detective bureau. No information of value was obtained, it was stated. The Sheriff's office, which is conducting a complete inquiry into all clues received by the county officer holds the belief that Sands, who has been a fugitive from justice for many months because of asserted grand larceny and forgery, has no knowledge of the actual murder. Those officers, as well as some of those working out of the police detective bureau, adhere more closely than ever to the theory that Mr. Taylor, an outstanding figure in the motion-picture industry, was slain by a jealous rival for the love of a film actress...
New York	New York	New York Telegraph	1922-02-08	Los Angeles, Feb. 7--...Bell and Manning declare that the police theory, fixing the murder upon Sands, Taylor's former secretary, is erroneous. 'The man who killed Taylor is right here in Los Angeles,' declared Bell. 'We are not shooting blind. We know what and who we are after. Before another day is passed we will have action on the murder.' The county investigators are working on the theory that a woman is at the bottom of the mysterious murder. The chief evidence unearthed during the day is a letter and a bit of celluloid film. The letter was received by Arthur Koetchu, Assistant State's Attorney General. It was received from a woman and, according to Koetchu, has a direct bearing on the case. It recounted that the writer overheard a conversation at Second street and Bunker Hill avenue on the night of the tragedy. One of the motorists wore a cap and muffler, it was stated. The informant overheard the men conversing in low, excited tones, the letter states. 'Now that we're in for it,' one of them is said to have told 'the man in the muffler.' They separated, going in different directions in two automobiles. But the occupants lost some small articles in their haste, the letter states. One of these was a small strip of motion picture film, apparently part of a scenic reel depicting the Grand Canyon. In the strip was this sub-title, apparently only a sinister coincident: 'A deep and brooding mystery seems to hover over this great scar on the face of nature.' Taylor had several reels of pictures stored in his home. Detective George Conteres is going through them with Public Administrator Frank Bryson to ascertain whether or not the strip of film is part of Taylor's collection of scenics.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-08	Here is another unsigned love letter, in cipher, found in the effects of William D. Taylor, the motion picture director. This letter would indicate the writer's deep love for Taylor. The code is known to thousands of youngsters: 'What shall I call you, you wonderful man. You are standing on the lot, the idol of an adoring company. You have just come over and put your coat on my chair. I want to go away with you, up in the hills or anywhere just so we'd be alone--all alone. In a beautiful little woodland lodge you'd be cook (as I can only make tea) and fetch the water and build the fire. 'Wouldn't it be glorious to sit in a big comfy couch by a cozy warm fire with the wind whistling outside trying to harmonize with the faint sweet strains of music coming from our victrola. And then you'd have to get up and take off the record. Of course I don't really mean that, dear. Did you really suppose I intended you to take care of me like a baby? Oh, no, for this is my part, I'd sweep and dust (they make the sweetest little dust caps, you know) and tie fresh ribbons on the snowy white curtains and feed the birds and fix the flowers, and, oh, yes, set the table and help you wash the dishes and then in my spare time I'd darn your socks. I'd go to my room and put on something soft and flowing, then I'd lie on the couch and wait for you. I might fall asleep for a fire always makes me drowsy--then I'd wake to find two strong arms around me and two dear lips pressed on mine in a long sweet kiss---' (The last paragraph of this letter is being withheld by The Examiner from publication at this time.)
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Examiner	1922-02-08	Ten thousand persons paid final tribute to William Desmond Taylor yesterday afternoon. They stood with bared heads as the casket was removed from St. Paul's Pro-Cathedral, a solid, packed mass of humanity which extended from the church doors across Olive street, filled that thoroughfare from Fifth to Sixth streets, and overflowing into Pershing Square. A squad of police officers, under command of Sergeant J. A. McCaleb, including a number of mounted officers, had great difficulty in restraining the huge throng, and the famous picture stars who attended the service found themselves passing through a solid aisle of curiosity seekers, jostling and pushing each other in frantic efforts to catch a glimpse of the celebrities. Most of them, however, including Constance Talmadge, Mary Miles Minter and others came through a little used side door half an hour before the services, which began at 2 o'clock. Mabel Normand, escorted by several friends, hatted and furred so that her features were entirely obscured, came a few moments before the ceremonies. After the church, which has a seating capacity of 1000, was filled, the crowd stormed the doors in an effort to gain admittance, and it was only by using force that the police were able to restrain it. So great was the disturbance and the cries that, for a few moments, the service was interrupted. The great majority were women, and the crush became so great just before 2 o'clock that two women fainted and had to be removed in private automobiles. Every window in an adjoining house was packed; boys were perched on lamp posts, and across the street both men and boys were using trees and trolley posts to gain points of vantage. Never before in the history of Los Angeles has there been such a crowd at the funeral of a private citizen. The mounted officers kept open a path for street cars with difficulty and vehicular traffic was stopped by Sergt. McCaleb at 1 o'clock. They remained outside the house of worship, standing for three hours waiting to catch a glimpse of the casket and to see men and women whose names are known all around the world. All Screenland's notables sent floral pieces. The entire front of the chancel was a solid mass of blossoms which overflowed, almost to the alter in one direction, and down to the foot of the bier in another. Standing out prominently in bold relief against all the rest, was a huge, magnificent wreath of roses sent by Mabel Normand, which was on the left and a snow white cross of lilies with a card bearing the simple inscription: 'From Dustin.' There also was a modest shower of lilies, the flowers of purity, somewhat inconspicuous among the riot of American Beauties, orchids and other expensive blossoms. This card said merely: 'Ethel Daisy's' and was the contribution of Ethel Daisy Tanner, 19-year-old daughter of the dead man, whose home is in New York. While a list of the names on the cards attached to the floral pieces read like a page from the blue book of Filmdom, there was one, written in a rather scrawly hand, indicating it came from one in the humbler ranks, reading, simply: 'For Mr. Taylor--from Jim.' It was a basket of delicate Spring flowers. The Black Prince roses which Mary Miles Minter left at the mortuary, were there, as well as a gorgeous piece from the Directors' Association, of which the dead man was the president, and scores of others. Included in the number were flowers and pieces from the American Society of Cinematographers, a harp of pink roses, sweet peas and lilies, Charles Ray; shower of roses and lilies, from George Young and Helen Sanborn; Al Christie, red roses; Lila Lee, shower of pink roses; Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Ince, cross of pink roses and orchids; W. A. Robertson, shower of pink roses; Mack Sennett, basket of roses; E. M. and F. A. Franklin, showers of lilies; Antonio Moreno, wreath of lilies and orchids; Harry Fellows, assistant to Mr. Taylor, spring blossoms, sweat peas and lilies; Constance Talmadge, American Beauty roses, L. L. Burns, wreath of sweet peas, Charles Chaplin, wreath of velvet roses; Mr. and Mrs. Douglas MacLean, spray of roses and lilies; from 'Bebe and Phyllis' a spray of pink carnations and lilies; Charles Levy and Sons, red velvet roses and lilies of the valley, Mr. and Mrs. R. Barker, wreath of pink roses and lilies of the valley; Edward Knoblock, wreath of sweet peas and lilies; shower of roses, Mrs. Otis Turner of New Rochelle, New York; Elsie A. Larson, roses; Ethel M. Davis, wreath, as well as large pieces from every organization identified with the film industry, including the Screen Writers' Guild, Actors' Equity Association and others. It was shortly after noon when the casket was placed at the head of the main aisle of the cathedral by Ivy H. Overholtzer, head of the mortuary from which bears his name. A deaconess in her semi-uniform of gray, was busy arranging the late floral tributes. A minister was tiptoeing about whispering and arranging final details. The air was heavy with the scent of roses, lilies and other flowers. Outside the February sun was shining brightly, with a hint of Spring in the air. A stray beam found its way through a bit of stained glass in a chancel window, which, strangely enough, bathed the bier in a mist of shimmering gold. The British flag, draped over the casket, was transmuted into a cloth of wondrous color and beauty. It was a scene of peace and quiet, yet pregnant with events soon to occur. Then came soft footfalls on the carpeted aisle and into a pew but a few feet away from the casket came Henry Peavey, colored cook and valet of the dead man, accompanied by J. J. Larkin, a white friend of many years standing. Peavey took one look at the masses of flowers, one glance at the gleaming cross on the altar, then his eye was caught and held by the flag- draped coffin, enwrapped in golden light. Suddenly he sobbed aloud, and, half turning his body, crumpled into a heap on the cushions, his body shaken with grief. It was almost half an hour before he could compose himself, and during the services tears ran unrestrained down his cheeks. Then came a sharp reminder of the days when the director abandoned the studio to battle for right, truth and justice, and became one of the five million men who helped turn the tide of war and bring victory. For Mr. Taylor enlisted as a private in the British army and rose to the rank of captain with remarkable rapidity. As a mute reminder of that service, his cap lay on the coffin, and he lay there in the casket in his uniform, but without the medals he won for valor and bravery. There was a sharp tread of feet, the rattle of arms, and short, sharp commands as a guard of honor was posted by the captain in command--Canadian soldiers, former service men, in full uniform, one at each corner, standing immobile, statue-like, with heads bowed, their hands resting on the butts of their rifles with barrels resting on the floor. And between the staccato orders of the captain came the sound of the sobs of Peavey, the servant of the dead man. It was half an hour before the time set for the rites that the half of the cathedral set aside for the film folks began to fill. Charles Eyton, general manager of the West Coast studios of the Famous Players-Lasky Corporation, was among the first to come. He was followed by a number of directors almost as well known as their dead friend who lay in the casket in the front of the church, with four soldiers on guard--the honor guard for the dead British captain. Among the others who were present were George Melford, Ted Sloman, Wesley Ruggles, Frank Beall, Ben Wilson, Murdock MacQuarrie, James Young, Frank Campeau, Theodore Roberts, Antonio Moreno, Gilbert Hamilton, George L. Cox, Wallie Van, Paul Scardon, Roy Clements, Mrs. Julia Crawford Ivers, Mr. and Mrs. Henry McRae, Wallace Worsley, Kathleen Kirkham, Frank Lloyd, Joseph DeGrasse, Arthur Hoyt, Constance Talmadge, who was accompanied by her mother; James Neill and scores of others whose names are household words over the world. Among the throng was a little dark-haired, big-eyed girl whose eyes bore traces of weeping. She came in quietly with her mother and found as unobtrusive a seat as possible. She is Neva Gerber, former fiancee of Mr. Taylor, and, at the time of his death, one of his warmest friends and ardent admirers. Her handkerchief went often to her face during the services, as she was swept by memories of the tragedies, in sharp contrast to the happy hours they had spent planning a future wherein they should always be together. Outside the crowd had increased to large proportions. Sergeant McCaleb sent in a call for additional police to handle the impatient throng. A few of the fortunate ones who stood closest to the church door were admitted and it was announced the cathedral was closed. Then it was that the crowd broke the restraining ropes and the human barriers of soldiers and police and swept up the steps, determined to gain admission. There was a quick mobilizing of uniformed officers, attaches of the church and others who blocked the onslaught. They were compelled to handle some of the foremost and most aggressive men and women with force to prevent them from taking the edifice by storm. Some were people who had worked with Mr. Taylor; others came from various studios, but in the main they were idle curiosity seekers who possessed a morbid desire to be present at the services and to view the body later. They had waited from two to three hours and they were determined to get in at all costs. While the church was not completely full, this wholesale onslaught made it impossible to open the door and admit the few for whom there still was standing room. The organ began a slow, solemn dirge, as the crowd without was clamoring for admittance, and making so much noise those in the back could scarcely hear its notes. Dean William MacCormack, standing high in the pulpit, a dignified, commanding figure, was the center of attention. He gave a signal, and the male quartet ruffled its music, the organ switched into a prelude and then they sang the old, beloved hymn, which took many back to their childhood, and away for the moment, of the scenes of which they were apart. 'Lead, kindly light, amidst the encircling gloom. 'The night is dark and I am far from home. 'Lead Thou me on.' Their voices rose, clear and melodious and the swelling notes of the organ rose in accompaniment. To some this was but a prelude, but to most it brought recollections of days that are gone and friends who are no more. Of other churches, perhaps, at eventide, and other voices which sang this hymn--voices, like that of William Desmond Taylor, there in the casket, now stilled in death. When the last note died away, Dean MacCormack began reading the beautiful and impressive service of the Episcopal Church for the burial of the dead--the comforting words from the Book of books, which have come down through the years to lighten the sorrows of the bereaved, rich in promise and vibrant with hope. The clergyman made an impressive picture as he stood in the chancel in his vestments of white, reading the promises of the Man of Galilee, made 1900 years ago, which have brought their mede of cheer to countless millions: 'I am the resurrection and the Life; whosoever believeth in me shall not perish, but have everlasting life.' And those other pledges of eternal life and happiness. Then it seemed most fitting and proper that the quartet should sing another dearly beloved hymn, another heritage of the ages, 'Abide With Me'-- 'Abide with me. 'Fast falls the even tide. 'The darkness deepens. 'Lord with me abide.' Then there was the reading of Scripture by the Rev. C. H. Boddington, assistant to the dean, and the final prayer. Then the thousand persons in the church rose to their feet, again there was the sharp military commands as the guard of honor was changed, and, preceded by Dean MacCormack the casket was carried up the aisle and deposited in the vestibule of the cathedral. The throng within the church filed slowly out, stopping to take a last look at the slain director. And as they went slowly by Mabel Normand, in church pew, was in a state of collapse, but regained her composure later. She had planned to leave the edifice by a little used door, but abandoned the plan. The pall bearers, honorary and actual, were made up of members of the Motion Picture Directors' Association and those of the British Overseas Club, service men in uniform. Those from the directors' organization included James Young, Frank Beall, Frank Lloyd, D. M. Hartford, Joseph DeGrasse, Arthur Hoyt and Charles Eyton. The overseas contingent, which included the firing squad, was made up, in part, of the following: Major W. Driver, in command; Captains Morrie Spencer and J. Portus and Lieutenants Carter, Thompson, Donsell, Southern, Dalton, Jackson, Dickson and Rawlins. The firing squad was under command of Captain Arthur Clayton. A picturesque touch of color was lent to the otherwise drab scene by the presence of a company of Scotch bagpipers in full regalia, from caps to kilts and short stockings. There also was present, wearing a uniform unlike any of the rest, a bugler, furnished by the commander of the British warship Calcutta, now anchored at the port of Los Angeles. When the last of the spectators had left the cathedral, but with the outside crowd still increasing in numbers, the casket was born to the waiting hearse. There was a craning of necks and then the crowd surged forward completely blocking the passage way the police had made for the hearse and the funeral party. It was with difficulty that the bluecoats remade the path through the dense throng but it was finally accomplished and the funeral cortege started on its way. It moved slowly south on Olive street, the guard of honor, with arms reversed, followed by the pipers, playing a funeral march, the muffled drum forming a tonal background for the somewhat shrill skirling of the pipes. Traffic was halted on every cross street as the procession passed. On each side of the hearse walked the pallbearers, then came members of the Overseas Club in uniform, followed by the automobiles. In the first machine was Charles Eyton, William de Mille and a number of Lasky studio celebrities. A limousine immediately following was occupied by Mabel Normand The shades were closely drawn and the one star whose name has been more frequently mentioned in connection with the murder of Taylor was, with her party, hidden from the curious gaze of the thousands through which it passed. The next machine contained members of the Motion Picture Directors' Association, and the other noted members of the film colony. As the thin, high notes of the bagpipes called attention to the procession, pedestrians stopped and doffed their hats and gazed. Solid lines of humanity in the center of the street down to Ninth street, did not obstruct their vision. Men at work on a building on Olive street between Seventh and Eighth stopped their work and stood on ladders and the room, hats off, and watched the passing of the machines. Newsboys stopped selling their papers, with stories of the tragedy, to worm their way up to the front line of spectators in the street. Just as the cortege was between Seventh and Eighth streets, Henry Peavey ran across the street and climbed into an open car. Along the entire route the sidewalks were lined with people who paused and watched the solemn march. For nearly a mile on each side of Hollywood cemetery, where the final ceremonies were held, machines were parked. Along the drives of the cemetery hundreds of others were left, while their owners went to make up part of a throng of more than 1000 people. A square was roped off and around it this new crowd was waiting when the cortege arrived. The magnificent floral pieces had been set up and formed a fitting background for the last rites. And most prominent among them was the huge wreath sent by Mabel Normand. Also occupying an important position was the director's table at which he worked, and the canvas-backed chair in which he worked. The guard of honor drew up on one side. And then, there under the blue sky, with the green grass under foot, and palms waving gently in the afternoon breeze, the final words were said for the man who loved the open places of the world more than anything on earth. It seemed especially fitting and proper that the last tributes should be paid outdoors before his body was placed in a mausoleum. There was a prayer by the Dean, and then the Canadians took charge and the dead director was given a strictly military funeral. The spectators were permitted to view the body, after which three volleys were fired by the squad, and between each volley, the bagpipes sent forth their mournful refrain. Then the bugler placed his instrument to his lips and sounded 'taps,' the last call of the military day. The notes sounded through the lisnet city of the dead as the hundreds stood in hushed silence, and the last mark of respect and love had been paid the dead director.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Record	1922-02-08	Mary Miles Minter today was closely guarded by private detectives whom she had stationed at her beautiful Spanish casita, 2039 North Hobart boulevard, to keep away reporters and the merely curious. Miss Minter, according to reports from her house, is in a very nervous condition and has not been able to sleep for two nights. She was in conference with her mother, several friends and her attorney, John R. Mott. Expensive limousines lined the street for half a block. All correspondents who attempted to gain admission were turned back by the guards.
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Record	1922-02-08	...A fight to save the professional reputation of Mary Miles Minter, movie star, whose name has been dragged into the William D. Taylor murder mystery, was started today by her friends here. Hollywood's financiers, dealt a severe blow in the Arbuckle case, are resolved that no more screen prestige in which thousands of dollars have been invested shall be lost. Magnates determined to preserve Miss Minter's screen popularity met with attorneys at her home. Behind drawn curtains while private detectives stood guard to keep outsiders away the conference continued during the night and up until and early hour this morning... The son of a multi-millionaire eastern family may be arrested in connection with the murder of Taylor within the next day or two. His arrest will occur if county detectives can find a few necessary bits of corroborative evidence to support the theory already partly borne out by recent discoveries. The man who is suspected of knowing something about the mysterious assassination of the prominent picture director is now in Los Angeles under close surveillance. He came to this city, according to report, because of his admiration of a certain prominent woman movie star, whose name is among those mentioned as friends of the dead director. He was accredited by mutual acquaintances with being insanely jealous of the girl, although she, it appears, had never given him very much encouragement. Matrimony was his object, it is believed. Undersheriff Eugene Biscailuz confirmed the supposition that the sheriff's office is working on the theory that the murder was committed by some admirer of an actress and not by Edward F. Sands, former secretary of Taylor. Captain David L. Adams, head of the police detective squad that is trying to solve the murder, still hold firmly to the theory that with the capture of Sands the murder will be explained. Police are concentrating on the task of finding the secretary...
Los Angeles	California	Los Angeles Express	1922-02-08	A conspiracy of silence intended to thwart police investigation; the assurance of immunity for Edward F. Sands on a felony charge; the asserted career of the alleged slayer; entry of the federal government into the probe; the grilling of witnesses and the widespread probing of new and secret evidence featured developments in the mystery surrounding the slaying of William D. Taylor today... Sands, the man whom Police Captain David L. Adams is confident is responsible for the slaying of Taylor, today invited the fugitive to communicate with police headquarters and eliminate himself from the case if he is not guilty. 'Sands will not be prosecuted on the grand larceny charge now pending against him,' Captain Adams said. 'He can't be. The complaining witness in that case--Taylor--is dead. That case could never come to trial. 'If Sands is innocent, all he has to do is to notify me and prove his whereabouts on the night of the murder. If he can explain his movements successfully he will be released. We don't want him...' That there is an apparent plot afoot to prevent the true facts in the case from coming to light was corroborated today by Undersheriff Eugene Biscailuz. 'To date practically every source of possible information has proved a blank wall as far as the investigation is concerned,' he said. 'Plenty of red- hot information has been obtained by this office, but it has been wormed and ferreted out from various sources where it should have been forthcoming from persons who know. 'There is to be no further patience shown these persons who have been extended every courtesy and given every opportunity to tell what they know. Those who have facts which should be known to this office must 'come clean.' Sheriff Traeger will brook no more of these petty delays and unwillingness on the part of those who apparently have reached a unanimous decision to thwart the efforts of officers of the law interested in seeing that justice be done.'... It seemed today that activities for the time being would center at county headquarters where, under the personal direction of Sheriff William I. Traeger, Deputies Al Manning and Harvey Bell are working night and day in their efforts to bring the slayer to justice. Three men have been under suspicion by these officers for the past two days. One of them may be arrested today. It was definitely stated by the sheriff's office that steps would be taken to charge one of them with complicity, at least, in the crime. This assertion dovetails with intimation that Taylor was the victim of a sinister plot in which many persons well known to the public are more or less involved. It is whispered that before the investigation is concluded a startling list of names will be bandied about as co-conspirators in the slaying of the noted director. Shortly after 9 o'clock deputies were dispatched to look for the one of the trio said to have full knowledge of the murder and to collect further evidence relative to the asserted conspiracy... Sand's connection with the case has proved the bone of contention between various officials working on the mystery. The police department, practically to a man, are inclined to believe him guilty of the murder. Representatives of the sheriff's office take a diametrically opposite view. There is nothing in the evidence thus far disclosed which would connect the former secretary with the crime, they say. But Chief Deputy District Attorney William C. Doran is of the opinion Sands is the man and as a result a formal complaint charging him with the crime may be issued today. The district attorney's office has Detective Sergeants Contreras and King working on the case since it was first opened and they are in possession of certain facts that warrant such procedure, they say. All of the officers working on the case, however, are proceeding with 'open' minds and are accepting each clue at its face value. They were also busy today searching for a new figure in the tangle--a man said to have been deeply in love with a prominent motion picture actress mentioned in connection with the case. This man was seen in the vicinity of the Taylor home a few days prior to the murder and is said to be similar in build and general appearance to the man seen lurking about the Alvarado street residence on the night of the slaying. The 'mystery woman' interjected into the case late yesterday at the sheriff's office was also scheduled to make a second appearance today. Her identity has been closely guarded and the nature of her testimony has been withheld. According to Undersheriff Eugene Biscailuz, however, she is of the 'utmost importance' to the ultimate unraveling of the mystery...
New York	New York	New York Times	1922-02-08	FILM STAR FAINTS AT TAYLOR FUNERAL; SANDS IS ACCUSED Miss Normand Weeps as women Shriek in Rush to Enter Disturb Rites. THOUSANDS STORM CHURCH Love Letter on Mary Miles Minter's Stationery is Found' by Police in a Book. SHE ADMITS SHE LOVED HIM Dead Man's Butier, it is Announced, Will Be Charged Today With His Murder. Special to The New York Times. LOS ANGELES, Cal., Feb 7.-Sweeping the police aside crowds stormed the doors of St. Paul's Pro-Cathedral today in an effort to force an entrance when the funeral services were being held for William Desmond Taylor. Several women were overcome in the crush and were removed with difficulty. The police succeeded in closing the doors after a battle with the crowds, but the cries of the women, caught in the onrush, penetrated the church and were heard above the words of Dean William MacCormack, who was officiating. Mabel Normand, weeping and appearently on the verge of collapse, arrived at the church just before the funeral services began supported by her maid and a woman friend. She was escorted through the crowd by a detective, After the services were over Miss Normand fainted in the church. Friends rushed to her side and sought to revive her. Later, efforts were made to hurry her out of the church, but these attempts were abandoned because of the crowd, and she remained in the church until she was fully composed. Edward F. Sands will be charged with the murder of Taylor in a complaint to be issued tomorrow according to a statement tonight by Detective Sergeant King, who said that the case is now solved. He promises soon to unfold the "new "and concliusive" evidence upon which the complaint is based. Six thousand persons, it was estimated, were packed into Olive Street at the hour for the funeral service, The crowd overflowed the street and occupied part of Pershing Square across. Many police were sent to keep the crowd in hand, but their efforts were vain in the face of the determination of the onlookers to get a view of the funeral. British Flag Drapes Coffin. The coffin was draped with a British flag, the flag under which Taylor fought during the Worid War. In the aisle were an old table and chair which Tayfor had used at the studio. The top of the table was covered with violets. Half of the church was roped off for members of the motion picture professsion and close friends of the slain director, while the other half was open to the public. Floral offerings from Gloria Swanson, Rudolph Valentino, Wallace Reid, Thomas Meighan, Agnes Ayers. Jack Holt, Bebe Daniels, Wanda Hawley, Dorothy Dalton, Betty Compton, Dougas MacLean and other film actors and actresses were banked about the casket. Miss Normand sent a carpet of American Beauty roses for the coffin to rest upon. while Miss Mary Miles Minter sent Black Prince roses. The pallbearers, chosen from Mr, Taylor's personal friends, included William De Mille, Frank Beal, George Melford, Arthur Hoyt, James Young, Frank Lloyd, David Hartford and, Charles Eyton. An honorary guard of pallbearers from the Overseas Club assisted at the close of the service. Henry Peavey, Taylors negro servant, on seeing the dead body of his master in the coffin, became hysterical and had to be taken back into the church and quleted as the coffin left the church. The mystery of the missing hour in the last day of Taylor's life has been accounted for. That hour was between 5 and 6 P. M., two hours before he was killed. Henry Peavey, the colored valet, stated that Taylor had left the house at 5 P. M., after announcing that he was going for a walk. He left instruction with Peavey to inform Miss Normand if she called that he would return at 6 P. M. He returned at that hour. He was taking a dancing lesson. A Mrs. Waybright was his instructor. "He was just brushing up on some of the old steps," Mrs. Waybright stated." He had always taken private lessons. His previous lesson was taken continued on Page Six.  FILM STAR FAINTS AT TAYLOR FUNERAL continued from Page I, Column 3. on the preceding Monday night. Om Wednesday night I noticed nothing unusual about his actions. He was  as jolly, though as quiet and reticent, as on the preceding visit. He never discussed his personal affairs with me while we danced. We only talked of his progress in dancing. Had there been any worry on his mind on his last visit I would have noticed it. Handkerchief as a Clue. LOS ANGELES, Feb. 7 (Associated Press). The announcement tonight that Edward F. Sands would be formally charged with William Desmond Taylor's murder followed the revelation that a detective was said to have found a handkerchief with the letter "S" embroidered on it near the body of Taylor. Henry Peavey, Taylor's colored servant, said his employer had no such possession and that he was certain such a handkerchief was not on the floor of the apartment when he left it shortly before the time fixed as that of the murder last Wednesday night. Earlier in the day the police issued a circular calling for Sands's arrest. Secretary and butler to Taylor. The circular was ordered forwarded to all police departments of the country. It contained a picture of Sands, declared by Captain of Detectives David L. Adams to be the only one in existence, so far as the police have been able to learn. At the same time Captain Adams declared that Sands was the only person whose arrest the police were seeking in connection with the case. The circular read as follows: "We hold warrants on charges of grand larceny felonies for the arrest of Edward F. Sands. We have also burglary charges against him and seek him for the murder of William Desmond Taylor in this city of Los Angeles on the evening of Feb. 1, 1922. "Description: Edward F. Sands American or English birth; has been known to give his name as W. D. of William D. Tanner; is believed to have  also used the name of Edward Fitz Strathmore, He is about 36 years of age, eight 8 feet 7 or 8 inches, heavily built; some months ago welghed 185 to 195 pounds or more, but is said to be lighter now; present weight may not be more than 175; round, full face, light complexion: very heavy brown hair: rather heavy eyebrows, said by some to almost meet over his nose: short nose, peculiar mouth, which looks small when closed; smokes cigarettes: usually well dressed; is well educated: fine penman, good accountant: is said to have served in the United States Navy. The charges of grand larceny and burglary were preferred by Taylor, who told the police that Sands disappeared with money and other valuables about six months ago, and later returned and stole other articles from his apartments. The police also learned that the person who robbed the apartments returneda pawn ticket to Taylor showing he had disposed of some of the articles, giving the name "William Deane Tanner." Taylor was formerly known as  "William Cunningham Deane Tanner," which fact, the police assume, was known to Sands. Arthur Keetch, Assistant State Attorney General, turned over today to Disstrict Attorney Lee C. Woolwine a letter in which the writer related an incident the night Taylor was murdered.  The writer whose name is not told, stated that his attention had been attracted to four men in two automobiles at Second Street and Bunker Hill Avenue. The cars were standing at the corner. One of the men was heard to exclaim. "Now that we've got him, we'll have to run like h--l." Youth Is Examined. An incident of the day in the search for Sands was the bringing to Police Headquarters of a youth of that name who turned out to be a bellboy in an apartment house, who soon convinced the police that he was not the man wanted. Another "Sands" was reported located in Carlin, Nev., but the officials in that section reported this was also a false clue. Deputies under Sheriff William L. Traeger said they were working on "several pressing angles" in connection with the case and were "very far from being discouraged." They said they had not taken part in the search for Sands, leaving that to the police. A scented note dropped from one of Taylor's books while police detectives were making an examination of his effects, according to The Los Angeles Examiner. It was on the butterfly monogramed stationery of Mary Miles Minter. It read as follows:  Dearest " I love youI love youI love you. "XXXXXXXX "Yours always, MARY." The last "X" was two inches in height followed by an exclamation point an inch in height. Mary Miles Minter did not deny authorship of the letter, according to The Examiner. "I did love William Taylor," she said. "I loved him deeply and tenderly with all the admiration and respect a young girl gives to a man with the poise and culture of Mr Taylor." Taylor and Miss Minter met at Santa Barbara two years ago. He was her director in several pictures. Letters Are written in Code. Among Taylor's effects were found two letters written in a well-known school girl code of straight lines and dots. One of these, deciphered, reads as follows: "I love you oh, I love you. "I had to come down because mama remarked that I always seemed to feel rather happy after being out with you. So here I am camouflage. "Furthermore, I am feeling unusually fine more camouflage. "I will see you later. God love you as I do." The home of Mary Miles Minter was under a heavy guard of private detectives today, and none but those with official permission were permitted to enter the grounds or residence. No explanation of their presence was made by the detectives, who maintained silence when questioned as to the purpose or by whom they were detailed to guard the place. In their consideration of blackmail as a possible element in the murder of William Desmond Taylor the police recalled tonight that Miss Normand was the intended victim of an alleged blackmailing plot several years ago. In 1916, she caused the arrest of Dr. Raymond A. Swett, a dentist, now said to be dead. It was charged that Swett demanded $610 from the actress under the alternative that he would circulate stories to her discredit. It is understood that Miss Normand dropped the matter upon receipt of a note from Swett, asking leniency because of his wife and children. Friends of Taylor told the police that the Director had an intense hatred for blackmailers. They quoted him as having said: "There is only one way to treat the blackmailer. Kill him." DON COLLINS Is ARRESTED.  Man Mentioned in Taylor Murder Is Located in Miami. Inspector John D. Coughlin, head of the Detective Division, received a telegram late yesterday afternoon from the police of Miami, Fla., informing him of the arrest there of Don Collins, exconvict and Tenderloin habitue, whose name was mentioned in connection with the slaying of William Desmond Taylor the motion-picture director, in Los Angeles. The telegram stated, he said, that Collins was in the company of another man and Miss Lila Wiley. 23 years old, who formerly lived with her parents at his Mount Hope Place, the Bronx. He added that he was under the impression that the second man was Francis T. Boylan, who formerly lived in the Hotel Claridge here. Collins was sought by the police of this city on an indictment charging him with shooting John H. Reid, a manufacturer of sllk lingerie, in the home of Mrs. Hazel Davis Warner, a cousin of Miss Wiley, at 1,892 University Avenue, the Bronx, on May 15 last. Collins was alledged to have fled with Boylan and Miss Wiley after he had shot Reid five times. About a week after the shooting Miss Wiley and Boylan surrendered to district Attorney Edward J. Glennon in the Bronx, were held in $10,000 bail each as material witnesses by Judge Gibbs in the Bronx County Court and later appeared before the Grand Jury in the investigation which resulted in Collins's indictment. Mrs. Warner was also placed under $10,000 bail as a witness. Reid, who at the time said he lived at 66 West Forty-sixth Street, recovered  from his wounds, but was reported to have proved of little aid to the District Attorney in his investigation of the shooting. The police never established a motive for the shooting of the manufacturer, but learned that Collins came into Mrs. Davis' home while she and Miss Wiley were entertaining Reid and Boylan. There was no mention of the killing of Taylor in the telegram, said Inspector Coughlin. DEFENDS MOVIE COLONY. Carl Laemmle Declares Hollywood Is Clean and Beautiful. Carl Laemmle, President of the Universal Film Manufacturing company issued a statement yesterday replying to one made Sunday by Herbert Brenon, a producing manager, in which Mr. Brenon said that Hollywood must be abolished because of the recent scandals in the California motion-picture colony. Mr. Laemmle's statement says: "Mr. Brenon has given out a good story. My chief criticism of it is that what he said, if he said it, is nonsense. Hollywood is not a nest of immoral people. Living there does not harm one's morals any more than living in New York or London or Paris or San Francisco or any other live centre. It is a clean, beautiful place, and it does not even need as much defense as I have given it. Of course, it has its bad element. Show me a place that hasn't. "To say that the Taylor murder hurts the moving-picture business is utterly foolish. If it turns out that a banker committed the murder, it wont hurt the banking business, will it? Nor will it hurt the newspaper business if an editor committed the crime. Nor will it hurt any other business if some one from that particular business killed Mr. Taylor. Then why should it damn the moving-picture business if it turns out that some one connected with a studio fired the fatal shot? "The movies are a popular target. Nearly everything has been blamed on them except the big wetness of Noah's time. I can't see how the Taylor murder will furnish any ammunition for reformers just because a man in the business has been murdered. I have no doubt that police records almost anywhere will show that in times gone by reformers themselves have even been murdered, but that is hardly a reflection on reformers as a whole. "The picture business has helped Hollywood to become one of the most thriving cities in the world. Less than two years ago I could have bought a piece of property there for $40,000. Recently it was sold for $120,000. Immorality never did that.   
Washington, DC	Washington, DC	Washington Post	1922-02-08	Nevada Sheriff Satisfied Prisoner Is Not Sands   Eiko, New., Feb. I (By the Associated Press. F. Roloff, former sailor, taken into custody here at the, request of the Los Angeles police on the charge that he might be Edward F. Sands. alias Edward. Fitz Strathmore, wanted in connection with the murder of William Desmond Taylor, has satisfied the authorities that he is not the missing butler, according to the assertion today of Sheriff HarTis. of Elko county. Roloff told Sheriff Harris that he was discharged recently from the navy at San Pedro, Calif., and that he was in San Francisco the night Tayfor was murdered.  February 9, 1922 FILM STAR FAINTS AT TAYLOR FUNERAL   Mabel Normand Shrieks and Falis to Floor as She Looks. at the Dead.   SHOUTS DISTURB SERVICE Crowd of 30,000 Struggles to Get Into Church--Bagpipes Play Dirge in Military Rites.   Los Angeles, Feb. 7 (By the Associated Press)--Laughter and sereams and prayers marked the funeral here today of William Desmond Taylor, murdered motion-picture director. A crowd estimated by the police to number 30,000--almost ten times as many as could be seated in St. Paul' s Episcopal pro-cathedral--fought for admittance, and when that was denied to the majority, those left on the outside of the structure jammed the streets and overflowed Pershing square, a small downtown park, upon which the pro-cathedral faces. Many women in the crowd outside fainted. Within the darkened procathedral only one fainted. She was Mabel Normand, who was attired in deep mourning. and who is one of the last to have seen the dead director alive.   Union Jack on Casket. The casket draped with the Union Jack and topped by Taylor's army cap, stood before the altar. Taylor's body was dressed in the uniform of an officer in the British army, with which he served during the world war. Four uniformed British veterans  guarded the casket, which was banked with scores of massive floral pieces. Half of the seats were given over to persons of the film colony and half to the general public. On one side of the casket sat members of the motion picture director 's association, of which Taylor had been president. Stars and producers were scattered here and there. They included Cecil de Mille, Thomas R. Incc, Dustin Farnum, Douglas MacLean and Antonio Moreno. While the Rev. William McCormack, of St. Paul's, was reading the burial service, shouts and laughter from the jostling, hysterical, riotous throng without echoed through the procathedral.   Miss Normand Collapses. Miss Normand had sat within a few feet of the casket. During the service she fixed her eyes upon it, occasionally sobbing and clasping the hand of a woman companion. Supported on the arms of the two women, she was the last of the long line to file past the casket for a last look at the dead director. She gave a quick glance, cried out, staggered a few paces and fell to the floor in a faint. She was carried into the ves try room, revived and taken home. When the funeral cortege moved away from the procathedral it was led by a group of Scotch bagpipe players, playing a shrill dirge. Beside the hearse marched a squad of men in the British army uniform, the honorary pallbearers. The active pallbearers, members of the motionpicture directors association, rode. Back of the honorary pallbearers marched about 50 members of the British Overseas club, veterans of the world war. Later in the line came 100 or more crowded automobiles. At the cemetery there was a brief service and he body was placed in a vault. 
Washington, DC	Washington, DC	Washington Post	1922-02-08	ORDER SANDS' ARREST   Police Send Out Picture of Film  Director's Butler. CALL NEW CLEW CONCLUSIVE   Love Note From Mary Miles Minter Found in Slain Man's Book. Motion Picture Actress Goes Into Seclusion and Residence Guarded to Insure Privacy--Affectionate Letters, in Schoolgirl Code, Also Discovered--Wealthy New Yorker  Is Eliminated by the Detectives.   (By the Associated Press.) Los Angeles, Feb. 7.--A complaint charging Edward F. Sands, alias Edward Fitz Strathmore, missing butlersecretary, with the murder of his former employer, William Desmond Tayfor, will be issued, it was declared tonight, by Detective Sergt. Edward  King, of the police department. The complaint will be based on "new and conclusive" evidence uncovered today, according to King. Sands is now a fugitive from justice, as charges of grand larceny and burglary, preferred against him by Taylor, never have been dismissed. It was said that the new complaint might be issued against him tomorrow. Guards remained on duty tonight about the home of Mary Miles Minter, who admitted today she was the writer of a letter to Taylor. The  guards were employed to protect the actress against uninvited callers.   Nation-wide Search Started. Today's investigation of the slaying of Taylor culminated in the issuance by the police of a circular asking the arrest of Sands. The circular was ordered forwarded to all police departments of the country. It contained a picture of Sands, declared by Captain of Detectives David Adams to be the only one in existence, so far as the police have been able to learn. At the same time Capt. Adams declared that Sands was the only person whose arrest the police were seeking in con nection with the case. There has been abundant surmise about other individuals," he said, "and we have run down countless clews relating to the murder. But  I can say positively that we have no leads that would warrant us seeking anyone but Sands."   Text of Circular. The circular read as follows: "We hold warrants on charges of  grand larceny felonies for the arrest of Edward F. Sands. We have also burglary charges against him and seek him for the murder of William Desmond Taylor in this city of Los  Angeles on the evening of February 1, 1922. Description: Edward P. Sands, American or English birth. Has been known to give his name as W. D. or William Deane Tanner. Is believed to have also used the name of Edward Fitz-Strathmore. He is about 28 years of age; height, 5 feet 7 or 8 inches; heavy built; some months ago weighed 185 to 195 pounds or more, but is said to be lighter now; present weight may not be more than 175; round, full face, light complexion, very heavy brown hair; rather heavy eyebrows, said by some to almost meet over his nose; short nose; peculiar mouth which looks small when closed; smokes cigarettes; usually well dressed; is well educated; fine penman; good accountant, is said to have served in the United States navy." The charges of grand larceny and burglary were preferred by Taylor, who told the police that Sands disappeared with money and other valuables about six months ago, and later returned and stole other articles from his apartments. The police also learned that the person who robbed the apartments returned a pawn ticket to Taylor, showing he had disposed of some of the articles, giving the name "William Deane Tanner." Taylor was formerly known as "William Cunningham Deane Tanner," which fact the police assume, was known to Sands.   Two False Clews. An incident of the day in the search for Sands was the bringing to police headquarters of a youth of that name who turned out to be a bell boy in an apartment house, who soon convinced the officers he was not the man wanted. Another "Sands" was reported located in Carlin, Nev., but officials in that section reported this was also a false clew. Deputies working under Sheriff William I. Traeger said they were working on "several pressing angles" in connection with the case and were "very far from being discouraged." They said they had not taken part in the search for Sands, leaving that to the police. They declined to state whether any importance was to be attached to a visit to the sheriff's office of a woman whose identity was kept secret. After being interrogated she was hurried away in an automobile. Persons who caught a glimpse of her declared she was not any one of prominence in motion picture circles. "A scented note dropped from one of Taylor's books while police dedetectives were making an examination of his effects, according to the Los Angeles Examiner.  It was on the butterfly monogrammed stationery of Mary Miles Minter. It read as follows: "Dearest--I love you-I love youI love you.   x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x "Yours always, MARY."   The last "x" was two inches in height, followed by an exclamation point an inch in height. Mary Miles Minter did not deny authorship of the letter, according to the Examiner. "I did love William Taylor," she said "I loved him deeply and tenderly, with all the admiration and respect a young girl gives to a man with the poise and culture of Mr. Taylor." Taylor and Miss Minter met at Santa Barbara two years ago. He was her director. They later went to New York with the company. The wealthy young New York man, who was reported to have left Los Angeles on the day following the murder of Taylor and who was enamored of one of the motion picture actresses whom police have been questioning in connection with the case, was located late last night by private detectives. According to these investigators he gave an account of himself which they say practically eliminates him from consideration in connection with the case. He was loeated in a downtown hotel. Interest had centered upon him for several days because he was said to be a rejected suitor of an actress reported infatuated with Taylor. Among Taylor's effects were found two letters written in a well-known school girl code of straight lines and dots. One of these deciphered reads as follows:   Happier After Meetings. "I love you-oh, I love you. "I had to come down because mamma remarked that I always 'seemed to feel rather happy after being out with you.' So here I am. Camouflage. Furthermore I am feeling unusually fine-more camouflage. "I will see you later. God love you as I do." An attorney for Miss Minter announced she had gone into seclusion and the residence was guarded by friends at the request of the family to insure privacy. The attorney said in connection with a letter published today as from Miss Minter to Taylor that it is possible the motion picture actress may issue a statement.  